A T
LGORITHMIC RADING

Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publish-
ing company in the United States. With offi ces in North America, Europe,
Australia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and mar-
keting print and electronic products and services for our customers’
professional and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived
the market’s ever changing temperament and have prospered—some
by reinventing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a
novice trader, professional, or somewhere in-between, these books will
provide the advice and strategies needed to prosper today and well into
the future.
For a list of available titles, visit our website at www.WileyFinance.com.

A
LGORITHMIC
T
RADING
Winning Strategies and
Their Rationale
Ernest P. Chan

Cover image: © Oleksiy Lebedyev/istock
Cover design: Wiley
Copyright © 2013 by Ernest P. Chan. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form
or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as
permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior
written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to
the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax
(978) 646-8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should
be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ
07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best eff orts
in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy
or completeness of the contents of this book and specifi cally disclaim any implied warranties of
merchantability or fi tness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales
representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable
for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor
author shall be liable for any loss of profi t or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to
special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our
Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at
(317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material
included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand.
If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased,
you may download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley
products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Chan, Ernest P., 1966–
Algorithmic trading : winning strategies and their rationale / Ernest P. Chan.
pages cm. — (Wiley trading series)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-1-118-46014-6 (cloth)
1. Investment analysis. 2. Stocks. 3. Exchange traded funds. 4. Algorithms.
5. Program trading (Securities) I. Title.
HG4529.C443 2013
332.63’2042—dc23
2013008380
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

To my parents, Hung Yip and Ching, and my partner, Ben

CONTENTS
Preface ix
CHAPTER 1 Backtesting and Automated Execution 1
CHAPTER 2 The Basics of Mean Reversion 39
CHAPTER 3 Implementing Mean Reversion Strategies 63
vii
CHAPTER 4 Mean Reversion of Stocks and ETFs 87
CHAPTER 5 Mean Reversion of Currencies and Futures 107
CHAPTER 6 Interday Momentum Strategies 133
CHAPTER 7 Intraday Momentum Strategies 155
CHAPTER 8 Risk Management 169
Conclusion 187
Bibliography 191
About the Author 197
About the Website 199
Index 201

PREFACE
T
his book is a practical guide to algorithmic trading strategies that can be
readily implemented by both retail and institutional traders. It is not an
academic treatise on fi nancial theory. Rather, I hope to make accessible to
the reader some of the most useful fi nancial research done in the past few
decades, mixing them with insights I gained from actually exploiting some
of those theories in live trading.
ix
Because strategies take a central place in this book, we will cover a wide
array of them, broadly divided into the mean-reverting and momentum
camps, and we will lay out standard techniques for trading each category of
strategies, and equally important, the fundamental reasons why a strategy
should work. The emphasis throughout is on simple and linear strategies,
as an antidote to the overfi tting and data-snooping biases that often plague
complex strategies.
In the mean-reverting camp, we will discuss the multiple statistical tech-
niques (augmented Dickey-Fuller [ADF] test, Hurst exponent, Variance Ra-
tio test, half-life) for detecting “time series” mean reversion or stationarity,
and for detecting cointegration of a portfolio of instruments (cointegrated
augmented Dickey Fuller [CADF] test, Johansen test). Beyond the mechani-
cal application of these statistical tests to time series, we strive to convey an
intuitive understanding of what they are really testing and the simple math-
ematical equations behind them.
We will explain the simplest techniques and strategies for trading mean-
reverting portfolios (linear, Bollinger band, Kalman fi lter), and whether us-
ing raw prices, log prices, or ratios make the most sense as inputs to these
tests and strategies. In particular, we show that the Kalman fi lter is useful

x
ECAFERP
to traders in multiple ways and in multiple strategies. Distinction between
time series versus cross-sectional mean reversion will be made. We will de-
bate the pros and cons of “scaling-in” and highlight the danger of data errors
in mean-reverting strategies, especially those that deal with spreads.
Examples of mean-reverting strategies will be drawn from interday and
intraday stocks models, exchange-traded fund (ETF) pairs and triplets,
ETFs versus their component stocks, currency pairs, and futures calen-
dar and intermarket spreads. We will explain what makes trading some of
these strategies quite challenging in recent years due to the rise of dark
pools and high-frequency trading. We will also illustrate how certain fun-
damental considerations can explain the temporary unhinging of a hitherto
very profi table ETF pair and how the same considerations can lead one to
construct an improved version of the strategy. When discussing currency
trading, we take care to explain why even the calculation of returns may
seem foreign to an equity trader, and where such concepts as rollover inter-
est may sometimes be important. Much emphasis will be devoted to the
study of spot returns versus roll returns in futures, and several futures trad-
ing strategies can be derived or understood from a simple mathematical
model of futures prices. The concepts of backwardation and contango will
be illustrated graphically as well as mathematically. The chapter on mean
reversion of currencies and futures cumulates in the study of a very special
future: the volatility (VX) future, and how it can form the basis of some
quite lucrative strategies.
In the momentum camp, we start by explaining a few statistical tests for
times series momentum. The main theme, though, is to explore the four
main drivers of momentum in stocks and futures and to propose strategies
that can extract time series and cross-sectional momentum. Roll returns in
futures is one of those drivers, but it turns out that forced asset sales and
purchases is the main driver of stock and ETF momentum in many diverse
circumstances. Some of the newer momentum strategies based on news
events, news sentiment, leveraged ETFs, order fl ow, and high-frequency
trading will be covered. Finally, we will look at the pros and cons of mo-
mentum versus mean-reverting strategies and discover their diametrically
diff erent risk-return characteristics under diff erent market regimes in re-
cent fi nancial history.
I have always maintained that it is easy to fi nd published, supposedly
profi table, strategies in the many books, magazines, or blogs out there,
but much harder to see why they may be fl awed and perhaps ultimately
doomed. So, despite the emphasis on suggesting prototype strategies, we

xi
PREFACE
will also discuss many common pitfalls of algorithmic trading strategies,
which may be almost as valuable to the reader as the description of the
strategies themselves. These pitfalls can cause live trading results to diverge
signifi cantly from their backtests. As veterans of algorithmic trading will
also agree, the same theoretical strategy can result in spectacular profi ts and
abysmal losses, depending on the details of implementation. Hence, in this
book I have lavished attention on the nitty-gritties of backtesting and some-
times live implementation of these strategies, with discussions of concepts
such as data-snooping bias, survivorship bias, primary versus consolidated
quotes, the venue dependence of currency quotes, the nuances of short-sale
constraints, the construction of futures continuous contracts, and the use of
futures closing versus settlement prices in backtests. We also highlight some
instances of “regime shift” historically when even the most correct backtest
will fail to predict the future returns of a strategy.
I have also paid attention to choosing the right software platform for
backtesting and automated execution, given that MATLAB©, my favorite
language, is no longer the only contender in this department. I will survey
the state of the art in technology, for every level of programming skills, and
for many diff erent budgets. In particular, we draw attention to the “inte-
grated development environment” for traders, ranging from the industrial-
strength platforms such as Deltix to the myriad open-source versions such
as TradeLink. As we will explain, the ease of switching from backtesting
to live trading mode is the most important virtue of such platforms. The
fashionable concept of “complex event processing” will also be introduced
in this context.
I covered risk and money management in my previous book, which was
built on the Kelly formula—a formula that determines the optimal lever-
age and capital allocation while balancing returns versus risks. I once again
cover risk and money management here, still based on the Kelly formula,
but tempered with my practical experience in risk management involving
black swans, constant proportion portfolio insurance, and stop losses. (U.S.
Supreme Court Justice Robert H. Jackson could have been talking about
the application of the Kelly formula when he said we should “temper its doc-
trinaire logic with a little practical wisdom.”) We especially focus on fi nding
the optimal leverage in realistic situations when we can no longer assume
Gaussian distribution of returns. Also, we consider whether “risk indicators”
might be a useful component of a comprehensive risk management scheme.
One general technique that I have overlooked previously is the use of
Monte Carlo simulations. Here, we demonstrate using simulated, as opposed

xii
ECAFERP
to historical, data to test the statistical signifi cance of a backtest as well as to
assess the tail risk of a strategy.
This book is meant as a follow-up to my previous book, Quantitative
Trading. There, I focused on basic techniques for an algorithmic trader, such
as how to fi nd ideas for new strategies, how to backtest a strategy, basic
considerations in automating your executions, and, fi nally, risk management
via the Kelly formula. Yes, a few useful example strategies were sprinkled
throughout, but those were not the emphasis. If you are completely new
to trading algorithmically, that is a good book to read. Algorithmic Trading,
however, is all about strategies.
All of the examples in this book are built around MATLAB codes, and
they are all available for download from www.wiley.com/go/algotrading
or my website at www.epchan.com/book2. Readers will fi nd the password
embedded in the fi rst example. Readers unfamiliar with MATLAB may
want to study the tutorial in Quantitative Trading, or watch the free webi-
nars on mathworks.com. Furthermore, the MATLAB Statistics Toolbox was
occasionally used. (All MATLAB products are available as free trials from
MathWorks.)
Software and mathematics are the twin languages of algorithmic trading.
Readers will fi nd this book involves somewhat more mathematics than my
previous one. This is because of my desire to inject more precision in dis-
cussing the concepts involved in fi nancial markets, and also because I believe
using simple mathematical models for trading can be more advantageous
than using the usual “data-mining” approach. That is to say, instead of throw-
ing as many technical trading indicators or rules at a price series to see
which indicator or rule is profi table—a practice that invites data-snooping
bias—we try to distill the fundamental property of that price series using
a simple mathematical model. We can then exploit that model to our fi nan-
cial benefi t. Nevertheless, the level of mathematics needed in the trading of
stocks, futures, and currencies is far lower than that needed in derivatives
trading, and anyone familiar with freshman calculus, linear algebra, and sta-
tistics should be able to follow my discussions without problems. If you fi nd
the equations too confusing, you can just go straight to the examples and see
their concrete implementations as software codes.
When I wrote my fi rst book, I was an independent trader, though one
who had worked in the institutional investment management industry for
many years. In the subsequent years, I have started and managed two hedge
funds, either with a partner or by myself. I have survived the 2007 summer
quant funds meltdown, the 2008 fi nancial crisis, the 2010 fl ash crash, the

xiii
PREFACE
2011 U.S. federal debt downgrade, and the 2011–2012 European debt cri-
sis. Therefore, I am more confi dent than before that my initial approach to
algorithmic trading is sound, though I have certainly learned much more in
the interim. For instance, I have found that it is seldom a good idea to manu-
ally override a model no matter how treacherous the market is looking; that
it is always better to be underleveraged than overleveraged, especially when
managing other people’s money; that strategy performance often mean-
reverts; and that overconfi dence in a strategy is the greatest danger to us
all. One learns much more from mistakes and near-catastrophes than from
successes. I strove to record much of what I have learned in the past four
years in this book.
My fund management experience has not changed my focus on the seri-
ous retail trader in this book. With suffi cient determination, and with some
adaptations and refi nements, all the strategies here can be implemented by
an independent trader, and they do not require a seven-fi gure brokerage ac-
count, nor do they require fi ve-fi gure technology expenditure. My message
to these traders is still the same: An individual with limited resources and
computing power can still challenge powerful industry insiders at their own
game.
■ The Motive
Books written by traders for other traders need to answer one basic ques-
tion: Why are they doing it? More specifi cally, if the strategies described are
any good, why would the trader publicize them, which would surely render
them less profi table in the future?
To answer the second question first: Many of the strategies I will
describe are quite well known to professional traders, so I am hardly
throwing away any family jewels. Others have such high capacities that
their profitability will not be seriously affected by a few additional trad-
ers running them. Yet others have the opposite properties: They are of
such low capacity, or have other unappealing limitations that I no longer
find them attractive for inclusion in my own fund’s portfolio, but they
may still be suitable for an individual trader’s account. Finally, I will
often be depicting strategies that at first sight are very promising, but
may contain various pitfalls that I have not fully researched and elimi-
nated. For example, I have not included transaction costs in my example
backtest codes, which are crucial for a meaningful backtest. I often use

xiv
ECAFERP
in-sample data to both optimize parameters and measure performance,
which would surely inflate results. I am committing all these pitfalls
in my examples because the simplified version is more illustrative and
readable. These may be called “prototype strategies.” They are not meant
to be traded “as-is,” but they are useful as illustrations of common algo-
rithmic trading techniques, and as inspirations for the reader to further
refine and improve them.
What about the basic motive question? It comes down to this:
Crowdsourcing knowledge is often more effi cient than any other method
for gathering information. And so—as with my fi rst book—I welcome your
feedback on the strategies discussed in this book.
■ A Note about Sources and
Acknowledgments
Naturally, I did not invent most of the materials presented here. Besides the
traditional and commonly accessible sources of books, academic journals,
magazines, blogs, and online trader forums (such as elitetrader.com and
nuclearphynance.com), there are now new online expert networks such as
Hightable.com and Quora.com where specifi c questions can be posted and
often answered by true industry experts. I have personally benefi ted from
all these sources and am grateful to the various online experts who have
answered my questions with unexpected depth and details.
By virtue of my previous book and my blog (http://epchan.blogspot
.com), I am also fortunate to have heard from a great many insightful read-
ers, many of whom have contributed to my knowledge base.
I have also taught regular workshops in London and Singapore on various
topics in algorithmic trading that were attended by many institutional ana-
lysts and traders. They have contributed valuable insights to me that may not
be easily accessible in any public forums. Special workshops held for clients
in Canada, China, Hong Kong, India, South Africa, and the United States
have also exposed me to broad international perspectives and concerns.
I am also privileged to have collaborated with many knowledgeable fi -
nance professionals even as an independent trader and fund manager. Some
of these collaborations are short-term and informal, while others lead to
the formal formation of fund management companies. In particular, I thank
Steve Halpern and Roger Hunter for their extensive discussions and count-
less joint projects and ventures.

xv
PREFACE
I am indebted to Bryan Downing for introducing me to some of the trad-
ing technologies mentioned in Chapter 1, and to Rosario Ingargiola for
showcasing his FXOne platform to me.
Finally, many thanks to my editor Bill Falloon at John Wiley & Sons for
being always enthusiastic and supportive of my book ideas, to development
editor Meg Freeborn for her unfailingly valuable suggestions, and to pro-
duction editor Steven Kyritz for shepherding this book to its fi nal form.

CHAPTER 1
Backtesting
and Automated
Execution
W
hile the focus of this book is on specifi c categories of strategies and
1
not on general techniques of backtesting, there are a number of im-
portant considerations and common pitfalls to all strategies that need to
be addressed fi rst. If one blithely goes ahead and backtests a strategy with-
out taking care to avoid these pitfalls, the backtesting will be useless. Or
worse—it will be misleading and may cause signifi cant fi nancial losses.
Since backtesting typically involves the computation of an expected re-
turn and other statistical measures of the performance of a strategy, it is
reasonable to question the statistical signifi cance of these numbers. We will
discuss various ways of estimating statistical signifi cance using the method-
ologies of hypothesis testing and Monte Carlo simulations. In general, the
more round trip trades there are in the backtest, the higher will be the sta-
tistical signifi cance. But even if a backtest is done correctly without pitfalls
and with high statistical signifi cance, it doesn’t necessarily mean that it is
predictive of future returns. Regime shifts can spoil everything, and a few
important historical examples will be highlighted.
The choice of a software platform for backtesting is also an important
consideration and needs to be tackled early on. A good choice not only will
vastly increase your productivity, it will also allow you to backtest the broad-
est possible spectrum of strategies in the broadest variety of asset classes.

2
GNIDART
CIMHTIROGLA
And it will reduce or eliminate the chances of committing the aforemen-
tioned pitfalls. We will also explain why the choice of a good backtesting
platform is often tied to the choice of a good automated execution platform:
often, the best platform combines both functions.
■ The Importance of Backtesting
Backtesting is the process of feeding historical data to your trading strategy
to see how it would have performed. The hope is that its historical perfor-
mance tells us what to expect for its future performance. The importance of
this process is obvious if you have developed a strategy from scratch, since
you would certainly want to know how it has performed. But even if you
read about a strategy from a publication, and you trust that the author did
not lie about its stated performance, it is still imperative that you indepen-
dently backtest the strategy. There are several reasons for this.
Often, the profi tability of a strategy depends sensitively on the details
of implementation. For example, are the stock orders supposed to be sent
as market-on-open orders or as market orders just after the open? Are we
supposed to send in an order for the E-mini Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500
future just before the 4:00 p.m. stock market closing time, or just before
the 4:15 p.m. futures market closing time? Are we supposed to use the bid
or ask price to trigger a trade, or are we supposed to use the last price? All
these details tend to be glossed over in a published article, often justifi ably
so lest they distract from the main idea, but they can aff ect the profi tabil-
ity of a live-traded strategy signifi cantly. The only way to pin down these
details exactly, so as to implement them in our own automated execution
system, is to backtest the strategy ourselves. In fact, ideally, our backtest-
ing program can be transformed into an automated execution program by
the push of a button to ensure the exact implementation of details.
Once we have implemented every detail of a strategy as a backtest pro-
gram, we can then put them under the microscope and look for pitfalls in
the backtesting process or in the strategy itself. For example, in backtesting
a stock portfolio strategy with both long and short positions, have we taken
into account the fact that some stocks were hard to borrow and cannot easily
be shorted at any reasonable size? In backtesting an intermarket pair-trading
strategy in futures, have we made sure that the closing prices of the two
markets occur at the same time? The full list of pitfalls is long and tedious,
but I will highlight a few common ones in the section “Common Pitfalls of

3
BACKTESTING
AND
AUTOMATED
EXECUTION
Backtesting.” Often, each market and each strategy presents its own very
specifi c set of pitfalls. Usually, a pitfall tends to infl ate the backtest perfor-
mance of a strategy relative to its actual performance in the past, which is
particularly dangerous.
Even if we have satisfi ed ourselves that we have understood and imple-
mented every detail of a strategy in a backtesting program, and that there is
no pitfall that we can discover, backtesting a published strategy can still yield
important benefi ts.
Backtesting a published strategy allows you to conduct true out-of-sample
testing in the period following publication. If that out-of-sample performance
proves poor, then one has to be concerned that the strategy may have worked
only on a limited data set. This is actually a more important point than people
realize. Many authors will claim in their articles that the backtest results were
“verifi ed with out-of-sample data.” But, actually, if the out-of-sample testing
results were poor, the authors could have just changed some parameters, or
they could have tweaked the model substantially so that the results look good
with the “out-of-sample” data. Hence, true out-of-sample testing cannot re-
ally begin until a strategy is published and cast in stone.
Finally, by backtesting a strategy ourselves, we often can fi nd ways to
refi ne and improve the strategy to make it more profi table or less risky.
The backtesting process in trading should follow the “scientifi c method.” We
should start with a hypothesis about an arbitrage opportunity, maybe based
on our own intuition about the market or from some published research.
We then confi rm or refute this hypothesis by a backtest. If the results of the
backtest aren’t good enough, we can modify our hypothesis and repeat the
process.
As I emphasized earlier, performance of a strategy is often very sensitive
to details, and small changes in these details can bring about substantial im-
provements. These changes can be as simple as changing the look-back time
period for determining the moving average, or entering orders at the open
rather than at the close. Backtesting a strategy allows us to experiment with
every detail.
■ Common Pitfalls of Backtesting
Although almost every strategy allows for unique opportunities in commit-
ting errors in backtesting, there are a number of common themes, some
generally applicable to all markets, others pertain to specifi c ones.

4
GNIDART
CIMHTIROGLA
Look-ahead Bias
As its name implies, look-ahead bias means that your backtest program is us-
ing tomorrow’s prices to determine today’s trading signals. Or, more gener-
ally, it is using future information to make a “prediction” at the current time.
A common example of look-ahead bias is to use a day’s high or low price to
determine the entry signal during the same day during backtesting. (Before
the close of a trading day, we can’t know what the high and low price of the
day are.) Look-ahead bias is essentially a programming error and can infect
only a backtest program but not a live trading program because there is no
way a live trading program can obtain future information. This diff erence
between backtesting and a live trading program also points to an obvious
way to avoid look-ahead bias. If your backtesting and live trading programs
are one and the same, and the only diff erence between backtesting versus
live trading is what kind of data you are feeding into the program (historical
data in the former, and live market data in the latter), then there can be no
look-ahead bias in the program. Later on in this chapter, we will see which
platforms allow the same source code to be used for both backtest and live
execution.
Data-Snooping Bias and the Beauty of Linearity
Data-snooping bias is caused by having too many free parameters that are
fi tted to random ethereal market patterns in the past to make historical per-
formance look good. These random market patterns are unlikely to recur
in the future, so a model fi tted to these patterns is unlikely to have much
predictive power.
The way to detect data-snooping bias is well known: We should test the
model on out-of-sample data and reject a model that doesn’t pass the out-of-
sample test. But this is easier said than done. Are we really willing to give up
on possibly weeks of work and toss out the model completely? Few of us are
blessed with such decisiveness. Many of us will instead tweak the model this
way or that so that it fi nally performs reasonably well on both the in-sample
and the out-of-sample result. But voilà! By doing this we have just turned
the out-of-sample data into in-sample data.
If you are unwilling to toss out a model because of its performance on
a fi xed out-of-sample data set (after all, poor performance on this out-of-
sample data may just be due to bad luck), or if you have a small data set
to start with and really need to tweak the model using most of this data,
you should consider the idea of cross-validation. That is, you should select a

5
BACKTESTING
AND
AUTOMATED
EXECUTION
number of diff erent subsets of the data for training and tweaking your model
and, more important, making sure that the model performs well on these
diff erent subsets. One reason why we prefer models with a high Sharpe ratio
and short maximum drawdown duration is that this almost automatically
ensures that the model will pass the cross-validation test: the only subsets
where the model will fail the test are those rare drawdown periods.
There is a general approach to trading strategy construction that can min-
imize data-snooping bias: make the model as simple as possible, with as few
parameters as possible. Many traders appreciate the second edict, but fail
to realize that a model with few parameters but lots of complicated trading
rules are just as susceptible to data-snooping bias. Both edicts lead to the
conclusion that nonlinear models are more susceptible to data-snooping bias
than linear models because nonlinear models not only are more complicated
but they usually have more free parameters than linear models.
Suppose we attempt to predict price by simple extrapolation of the his-
torical price series. A nonlinear model would certainly fi t the historical data
better, but that’s no guarantee that it can predict a future value better. But
even if we fi x the number of parameters to be the same for a nonlinear
model versus its linear contender, one has to remember that we can usually
approximate a nonlinear model by Taylor-series expansion familiar from
calculus. That means that there is usually a simpler, linear approximation
corresponding to every nonlinear model, and a good reason has to be given
why this linear model cannot be used. (The exceptions are those singular
cases where the lower-order terms vanish. But such cases seldom describe
realistic fi nancial time series.)
An equivalent reasoning can be made in the context of what probabil-
ity distributions we should assume for returns. We have heard often that the
Gaussian distribution fails to capture extreme events in the fi nancial market.
But the problem with going beyond the Gaussian distribution is that we will
be confronted with many choices of alternative distributions. Should it be a
Student’s t-distribution that allows us to capture the skew and kurtosis of the
returns, or should it be a Pareto distribution that dispenses with a fi nite second
moment completely? Any choice will have some element of arbitrariness, and
the decision will be based on a fi nite number of observations. Hence, Occam’s
razor dictates that unless there are strong theoretical and empirical reasons
to support a non-Gaussian distribution, a Gaussian form should be assumed.
Linear models imply not only a linear price prediction formula, but also
a linear capital allocation formula. Let’s say we are considering a mean-
reverting model for a price series such that the change in the price dy in