
--- PAGE 2 ---
Table of Contents
Cover
Table of Contents
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
Preface
Acknowledgments
About the Authors
Part I: Generative AI for Trading and Asset
Management: A No-code Introduction
Chapter 1: No-code Generative AI for Basic
Quantitative Finance
1.1 Retrieving Historical Market Data
1.2 Computing Sharpe Ratio
1.3 Data Formatting and Analysis
1.4 Translating Matlab Codes to Python Codes
1.5 Conclusion
Chapter 2: No-code Generative AI for Trading
Strategies Development
2.1 Creating Codes from a Strategy
Specification
2.2 Summarizing a Trading Strategy Paper and
Creating Backtest Codes from It
2.3 Searching for a Portfolio Optimization
Algorithm Based on Machine Learning
2.4 Explore Options Term Structure Arbitrage
Strategies
--- PAGE 3 ---
2.5 Conclusion
2.6 Exercises
Appendix 2A.1 Computing Next-day’s Return
Appendix 2A.2 Uploading the Fama-French
Factors
Appendix 2A.3 Combining Fama-French Factors
with Next-day’s Returns
Chapter 3: Whirlwind Tour of ML in Asset
Management
3.1 Unsupervised Learning
3.2 Supervised Learning
3.3 Deep Reinforcement Learning
3.4 Data Engineering
3.5 Feature Engineering
3.6 Conclusion
Part II: Deep Generative Models for Trading and Asset
Management
Chapter 4: Understanding Generative AI
4.1 Why Generative Models
4.2 Difference with Discriminative Models
4.3 How Can We Use Them?
4.4 Illustrating Generative Models with
ChatGPT
4.5 Hybrid Modeling: Combining Generative
and Discriminative Models
4.6 Taxonomy of Generative Models
4.7 Conclusion
Chapter 5: Deep Autoregressive Models for
Sequence Modeling
5.1 Representation Complexity
--- PAGE 4 ---
5.2 Representation and Complexity Reduction
5.3 A Short Tour of Key Model Families
5.4 Model Fitting
5.5 Conclusions
Chapter 6: Deep Latent Variable Models
6.1 Introduction
6.2 Latent Variable Models
6.3 Examples of Traditional Latent Variable
Models
6.4 Learning
6.5 Variational Autoencoder (VAE)
6.6 VAEs for Sequential Data and Time Series
6.7 Conclusion
Chapter 7: Flow Models
7.1 Introduction
7.2 Model Training
7.3 Linear Flows
7.4 Designing Nonlinear Flows
7.5 Coupling Flows
7.6 Autoregressive Flows
7.7 Continuous Normalizing Flows
7.8 Modeling Financial Time Series with Flow
Models
7.9 Conclusion
Chapter 8: Generative Adversarial Networks
8.1 Introduction
8.2 Training
8.3 Some Theoretical Insight in GANs
--- PAGE 5 ---
8.4 Why Is GAN Training Hard? Improving GAN
Training Techniques
8.5 Wasserstein GAN (WGAN)
8.6 Extending GANs for Time Series
8.7 Conclusion
Chapter 9: Leveraging LLMs for Sentiment Analysis
in Trading
9.1 Sentiment Analysis in Fed Press Conference
Speeches Using Large Language Models
9.2 Data: Video + Market Prices
9.3 Speech-to-text Conversion
9.4 Sentiment Analysis
9.5 Experiment Results
9.6 Conclusion
Chapter 10: Efficient Inference
10.1 Introduction
10.2 Scaling Large Language Models: High
Performance, High Computational Cost, and
Emergent Abilities
10.3 Making FinBERT Faster
10.4 Model Quantization
10.5 Customizing Your LLM: Adapting Models
to Your Needs
10.6 Conclusions
Chapter 11: Afterword
11.1 Diffusion Models
11.2 Combining Generative Model Variants
11.3 LLMs as Financial Advisors
References
Appendix
--- PAGE 6 ---
A.1 Retrieving Adjusted Closing Prices and
Computing Daily Returns
A.2 Installing Python
A.3 Plotting the Risk-free-rate over the Years
A.4 Computing the Sharpe Ratio of SPY
A.5 Matlab Code for Computing Efficient Frontier
and Finding the Tangency Portfolio
Index
End User License Agreement
List of Illustrations
Chapter 1
Figure 1.1 Efficient frontier based on Python code
generated by ChatGPT.
Chapter 2
Figure 2.1 Cumulative returns of Fama-French
three-factor strategy.
Figure 2.2 Incorrect plot of annualized time value
of put options as function o...
Figure 2.3 Incorrect plot of implied volatility of put
options as function of t...
Figure 2.4 Annualized put option prices as function
of time to expiration based...
Figure 2.5 Annualized call option prices as function
of time to expiration base...
Chapter 3
Figure 3.1 Dendrogram of five stocks based on the
correlations of their daily r...
--- PAGE 7 ---
Figure 3.2 Principal components of two correlated
series.
Figure 3.3 Illustration of a sigmoid function.
Figure 3.4 Illustration of why L1 regularization can
more easily get us zero we...
Figure 3.5 The Anscombe quartet. All four data sets
have same means, variances,...
Figure 3.6 A typical precision-recall curve.
Figure 3.7 A typical ROC (Receiver Operating
Characteristics) curve.
Figure 3.8 A one-hidden-layer MLP that takes a
vector of features to classify...
Figure 3.9 A simple MLP for time-series prediction.
Figure 3.10 Tying the weights to the same values
and connecting the hidden nodes...
Figure 3.11 Same as Figure 3.10, but rotated 90°
counterclockwise so time procee...
Figure 3.12 Daily minimum and maximum
sentiment scores that show structural brea...
Chapter 4
Figure 4.1 Model taxonomy.
Figure 4.2 Conditional probability of the first token
given the prompt .
Figure 4.3 Conditional probability of the second
token given the prompt and p...
Figure 4.4 Conditional probability of the third token
given the prompt and pr...
Figure 4.5 Conditional probability of the fourth
token given the prompt and p...
--- PAGE 8 ---
Figure 4.6 Conditional probability of the fourth
token given the prompt and p...
Chapter 5
Figure 5.1 Model taxonomy: Autoregressive
models.
Figure 5.2 Sample from the Binarized MNIST
dataset. Larochelle and Murray (2011).
Figure 5.3 MADE Generation on MNIST. Left:
samples from a MADE model. Right: Ne...
Figure 5.4 Visualization of a stack of causal
convolutional layers. Figure 2 fr...
Figure 5.5 Visualization of a stack of dilated causal
convolutional layers. Fig...
Figure 5.6 Visualizing attention.
Figure 5.7 Scaled Dot-Product Attention. Figure 2
(left) from Vaswani et al. (2...
Figure 5.8 The Transformer encoder-decoder
architecture, developed for machine ...
Figure 5.9 Multi-head Attention. Figure 2 (right)
from Vaswani et al. (2023).
Figure 5.10 An illustration showing how the current
and lagged values of the ser...
Figure 5.11 An illustration showing how the model
input, comprising the time-ser...
Chapter 6
Figure 6.1 Model taxonomy: variational
autoencoders.
Figure 6.2 Illustration of model selection for
homoscedastic noise.
--- PAGE 9 ---
Figure 6.3 Illustration of model selection for
heteroscedastic noise.
Figure 6.4 Illustration of clustering using Gaussian
Mixture Models (GMMs). (a)...
Figure 6.5 Gaussian Mixture Model for market
regime detection.
Figure 6.6 VAE.
Figure 6.7 Illustration of the learned data manifold
for generative models with...
Figure 6.8 Illustration of the encoder-decoder
architecture of Base TimeVAE. Th...
Figure 6.9 Illustration of the main components in
Interpretable TimeVAE. Specia...
Chapter 7
Figure 7.1 Model taxonomy: flow models.
Figure 7.2 Illustration of the operations involved in
coupling flows, including...
Figure 7.3 Illustration of unbiased samples
generated by the NICE model when tra...
Figure 7.4 Illustration of unbiased samples
generated by the NICE model when tra...
Figure 7.5 Samples generated by the Real-NVP
model across four datasets: CIFAR-10...
Figure 7.6 Illustration of new images generated
through interpolations between f...
Chapter 8
Figure 8.1 Model taxonomy: GANs.
Figure 8.2 Evolution of GAN-generated images over
time, illustrating the progre...
--- PAGE 10 ---
Figure 8.3 The rightmost column displays the
nearest training example to each c...
Figure 8.4 Table 1 from Goodfellow et al. (2014):
Parzen window-based log-likel...
Figure 8.5 Illustration of one reason why training
GANs can be difficult. In th...
Figure 8.6 Illustration of two different cases for the
data distribution and th...
Figure 8.7 Illustration of the optimal discriminator
and critic when distinguis...
Chapter 9
Figure 9.1 Fed Chair Powell discusses latest Fed
rate hike.
Figure 9.2 System block diagram.
Figure 9.3 SPY Price series during Fed press
conference.
Figure 9.4 Enriched price series.
Figure 9.5 Scatter plot of sentiment signal vs
forward returns.
Figure 9.6 Available models and languages.
Figure 9.7 Whisper output on FED data.
Figure 9.8 Figure 3 from Devlin et al. (2019):
Illustration of differences in p...
Figure 9.9 Figure 1 from Devlin et al. (2019):
Illustration of the input/output...
Figure 9.10 Figure 2 from Devlin et al. (2019):
Illustration of the BERT input r...
Figure 9.11 Time-series sentiment signal and
forward returns.
--- PAGE 11 ---
Figure 9.12 Scatter plot of sentiment signal vs
forward returns.
Chapter 10
Figure 10.1 Figure 1 from Kaplan et al. (2020):
Illustration of how language mod...
Figure 10.2 Figure 4 from Wei et al. (2023): An
illustration of how performance ...
Figure 10.3 Figure 2 from Wei et al. (2022):
Illustration of performance, measur...
Figure 10.4 Softmax distribution.
Figure 10.5 Weights distribution.
Figure 10.6 Distribution of quantized weights.
Figure 10.7 Figure 1 from Hu et al. (2021): This
figure illustrates the reparame...
Appendix
Figure A.1 BIL annualized returns.
Figure A.2 Twenty-day moving average of
annualized BIL returns.
Figure A.3 Efficient Frontier produced by Matlab
codes.
List of Tables
Chapter 3
Table 3.1 Results of cluster-based features
importance ranking based on their ...
Table 3.2 Hypothetical design matrix for three
features with four samples.
--- PAGE 12 ---
Table 3.3 The confusion matrix for binary
classification.
Table 3.4 Confusion matrix for three-class
classification.
Chapter 7
Table 7.1 Computational complexity of the inverse
and determinant of the Jacob...
Chapter 9
Table 9.1 Performance table.
Chapter 10
Table 10.1 Performance metrics of teacher vs.
student models.
Table 10.2 Inference speed of teacher vs. student
models.
Table 10.3 Integer range for different bit widths.
Table 10.4 Performance table for speedups because
of quantization.
Table 10.5 Inference speed after quantization.
--- PAGE 13 ---
Generative AI for Trading
and Asset Management
Hamlet Jesse Medina Ruiz
Ernest Chan
--- PAGE 14 ---
Copyright © 2025 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc. All rights reserved, including
rights for text and data mining and training of artificial intelligence
technologies or similar technologies.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or
108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written
permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the
appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4470, or
on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission
should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or
online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permission.
The manufacturer’s authorized representative according to the EU General
Product Safety Regulation is Wiley-VCH GmbH, Boschstr. 12, 69469 Weinheim,
Germany, e-mail: Product_Safety@wiley.com.
Trademarks: Wiley and the Wiley logo are trademarks or registered trademarks
of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and other
countries and may not be used without written permission. All other
trademarks are the property of their respective owners. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have
used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or
warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this
book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or
fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by
sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies
contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult
with a professional where appropriate. Further, readers should be aware that
websites listed in this work may have changed or disappeared between when
this work was written and when it is read. Neither the publisher nor authors
shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including
but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical
support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United
States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax
(317) 572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content
that appears in print may not be available in electronic formats. For more
information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
--- PAGE 15 ---
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data Applied for:
Print ISBN: 9781394266975
ePDF ISBN: 9781394267002
epub ISBN: 9781394266999
Cover Image: © imaginima/Getty Images
Cover Design: Wiley
Author Photos: Courtesy of the Authors
--- PAGE 16 ---
To my parents, Denis and Herinarco, and my grandmother,
Gloria María.
To my family: Ben, Sarah, and Ethan
--- PAGE 17 ---
Preface
There are broadly three types of modern AI models:
discriminative models, generative models, and
reinforcement learning. Most quantitative asset managers
are familiar with discriminative models (e.g., given
yesterday’s return, what is the probability of today’s return
being positive); some are also familiar with reinforcement
learning (e.g., how can we optimize the selling price to get
a better profit). But Generative AI, commonly referred to as
GenAI, is a recent invention that receives a lot of buzz but
is often mistaken as a synonym with Large Language
Models (LLMs) or image generation. But GenAI can learn
from anything, not just from text or images. In particular, it
can learn from time series of asset returns, which is
perhaps most relevant for asset managers.
In this book, we delve into both the applications as well as
the fundamentals of GenAI. It is divided into two broad
parts: (1) No-code usage of Generative AI for traders and
asset managers with little coding experience; (2) the
fundamentals of Generative AI and their applications in
finance for those who are well-versed in coding and
discriminative AI. As a result, readers of each category can
feel free to just skim the chapters of the other part.
In the first two chapters of Part 1, we will show you
examples of how to use the no-code version of GenAI to do
stuff that most traders and quantitative investors will
encounter in their lifetime. For example, how to retrieve
adjusted prices of an ETF from the internet, how to
compute the most common performance metrics based on a
spreadsheet full of their daily prices; how to convert a
trading strategy’s backtest code from Matlab to Python
(using Matlab code from Ernie’s book “Machine Trading”
--- PAGE 18 ---
as example); how to come up with Python code based on a
strategy specification; and how to summarize a paper about
a trading strategy and turn that into backtest code. What
we will not be able to show you is “ChatGPT, just come up
with a profitable trading strategy that I can use.” At this
stage of GenAI development, this level of creativity hasn’t
been achieved yet.
The strategies that we asked GenAI to help create include a
long-short factor strategy, a VIX futures carry strategy, and
a SPX options calendar spread strategy. We also asked
GenAI to conduct a literature search for portfolio
optimization techniques based on deep reinforcement
learning.
For these two chapters, we will use the most commonly
known interface for these examples: the web-based
ChatGPT GPT-4o which at the time of writing was the most
current version of ChatGPT, and its cousin Microsoft's
Copilot. Of course, you can probably perform most of these
tasks equally admirably using Google’s Gemini Pro, X.AI’s
Grok, or DeepSeek, but we haven’t tried.
The third chapter of Part 1 of this book is a whirlwind tour
of machine learning techniques commonly used in asset
management. They range from unsupervised learning to
supervised learning and reinforcement learning. The
chapter also covers techniques useful for avoiding
overfitting and for model selection, such as regularization
and hyperparameter optimization. It also covers various
nuances in data and feature engineering that are often as
important as what machine learning model to choose. It
can be used as a primer for finance professionals new to AI,
or as a refresher for those who are already dabbling in AI.
Until around 2022 when ChatGPT was launched, this is all
the AI that most asset managers would ever learn.
--- PAGE 19 ---
Part 2 of the book delves into the fundamentals and
technical details of GenAI. Chapter 4 highlights the
difference between discriminative and generative AI and
introduces the major generative families: deep
autoregressive models, and deep latent variable models
such as variational autoencoders, flow models, and GANs.
Each of these families get their own chapters in the
remainder of Part 2. Each chapter explores how these
models were originally developed and demonstrates how to
adapt them to the dynamics of financial time series, with
practical notebook code examples using financial data. The
book concludes with end-to-end applications, showing how
these models can preprocess alternative data, generate
trading signals, and be optimized for efficient inference.
Chapter 9 is all about application: how to leverage LLMs
for sentiment analysis in trading. Chapter 10 is about
deploying these systems in practice—especially how to
optimize these models for efficient inference. This chapter
is unique, not typically found in generative modeling
resources, at least at the time of writing. Efficient inference
is something Hamlet worked on the last few years at his
company, where scalability and cost-effectiveness were
non-negotiable. Once again, Python notebooks that
implement most of these techniques are provided
throughout. We conclude with Chapter 11, summarizing
the main techniques covered in this book. We also
emphasize the role of domain expertise in designing
meaningful trading strategies, particularly when using
LLMs as copilots, and discuss why GenAI, despite its
success in other domains, may require more empirical work
to achieve similar results in finance. Finally, we outline
promising research directions where GenAI could
significantly impact finance.
This book is not about proving mathematical theorems.
Instead, we try to provide the reader with enough
--- PAGE 20 ---
foundational knowledge to help the reader adapt the
techniques to your specific problems. From Hamlet’s own
experience solving challenging problems at his company,
his own projects, and in machine learning competitions, he
found that foundational understanding—going back to the
mathematical formulation—often holds the key to good
solutions. This is especially important when the most
popular or widely accepted published solutions tend to fail
on real-world datasets! So, this book is his attempt to bring
these principles to traders and asset managers. At the
same time, he includes many practical code examples that
the reader can use to conduct their own research, improve
models, and develop new solutions.
Where possible, we have used real-world datasets from the
financial domain, limiting the use of standard datasets used
for research publications just to explain foundational
principles. Throughout the book, we also use numerous
examples involving images and text data. These examples
not only make the concepts easier to understand but also
demonstrate techniques that have been very successful in
other fields. They also have direct implications for
preprocessing alternative data in finance and integrating it
into trading strategies. Additionally, we offer insights into
how these techniques can capture the unique
characteristics of financial data. Some of the techniques
may seem remote from financial applications, but the key to
finding alpha where none existed before often comes from
borrowing techniques from a different domain.
Part 1 is what Ernie has learned practicing AI and machine
learning over the last 30 years, starting at the machine
learning group at IBM T. J. Watson Lab, and ending with
applying AI in the hedge fund and AI startup he founded
(qtscm.com and predictnow.ai). He eats his own dog food.
--- PAGE 21 ---
Part 2 is built on Hamlet’s experience at Criteo as its chief
data scientist, where he worked on multiple large-scale AI
applications, his experience developing his own trading
strategies, his participation in achieving top 1% rankings in
various machine learning competitions, both finance and
non-finance-related, on platforms like Kaggle and Numerai,
and his own learning and formal finance education.
Hamlet’s journey into finance began, like many others, as
an outsider. He started by reading any book he found
interesting (fun fact: that included all of Ernie’s books). He
realized that, like many people entering a new field, it’s
common to discover that similar methods often exist in
your own field but under different names, notations, and
applications. Later, as he formalized his journey by
completing a MicroMasters in Finance from MIT, he
realized there wasn’t a single resource covering all the
topics he had learned or applied over the years. This book
is his attempt to fill that gap.
If Part 2 of this book seems hard, it is because the concepts
are truly deep and revolutionary. Read it again, again, and
again. After the fourth pass, and after trying out some of
the code examples, you too can apply deep learning and
GenAI techniques to discover alpha that no one found
before.
We are sure that by the time this book is published, we
have already gained better understanding and better tools
in applying AI to finance, and we will post our latest
learnings in our social media accounts (x.com/echanQT,
x.com/hamletjmedina, and at our blog
substack.com/@gatambook). Also, as Blaise Pascal
famously said, “If I had more time, I would have written a
shorter letter.” We hope to elucidate further some of the
essential concepts here via Q&A and short tweets on our
social media accounts, and via our workshops.
--- PAGE 22 ---
Acknowledgments
By Hamlet
The journey of writing this book has been deeply
rewarding, but also, as my first book, quite challenging. I
want to acknowledge the many people who supported me
during this journey:
To Criteo, for allowing me to work on the applied side
of the business, tackling a variety of challenging, large-
scale applications over many years while also
supporting me to spend time on the research side in
this fast-evolving field. To my colleagues there: this
combination has deeply shaped the way I approach
problems and find solutions.
To my brother, Yanick Medina, currently a master’s
student in AI, who has been an invaluable contributor
to the code in Part 2 of this book. He meticulously
reviewed and tested the code while providing feedback
that helped us ensure a balance between code
modularity and accessibility, a principle we try to keep
throughout.
To my family and friends, whose support and
encouragement have been my foundation. Special
thanks to my father, who taught me the beauty of
mathematics from a very young age.
To God, whose infinite mercy has made all of this
possible.
--- PAGE 23 ---
By Ernest
I would like to thank Dr. Roger Hunter, CTO at QTS Capital
Management (qtscm.com), for his partnership in working
on many AI in finance projects throughout the years,
especially in co-developing the Lifecycle of Trading
Strategy Development with Machine Learning workshop
(epchan.com/workshops), and the Generative AI for Asset
Managers workshop (predictnow.ai/generative-ai-
workshop). I am also grateful that the current CEO of QTS
Capital Management (qtscm.com), Dr. Nahid Jetha, has
continued to advance AI development there to the benefits
of our investors.
I also would like to thank my current and former technical
team members at Predictnow.ai for their contributions to
bringing AI to many asset managers: Johann Abraham,
Sergei Belov, Pavan Dutt, Haoyu Fan, Guillaume Goujard,
Andrew Inscore, Nancy Khullar, Nancy Xin Man, Uttej
Mannava, Akshay Nautiyal, Sudarshan Sawal, Jean Silva,
Jai Sukumar, and Quentin Viville.
Of course, this book would not have come into existence
without the support of Wiley, especially the invaluable
contributions of our managing editor, Stacey Rivera,
editorial assistant, Katherine Cording, copyeditor Sheryl
Nelson, content specialist Bala Shanmugasundaram, and
executive editor, Bill Falloon. Working with them was truly
a pleasure.
--- PAGE 24 ---
About the Authors
Hamlet Jesse Medina Ruiz holds the position of chief
data scientist at Criteo. He specializes in time series
forecasting, machine learning, deep learning, and
Generative AI. He actively explores the potential of cutting-
edge AI technologies, such as Generative AI across diverse
applications.
He holds an electronic engineering degree from
Universidad Rafael Belloso Chacin in Venezuela, as well as
two master’s degrees with honors in mathematics and
machine learning from the Institut Polytechnique de Paris
and Université Paris-Saclay. Additionally, he earned a PhD
in physics from Université Paris-Saclay. Hamlet has
consistently achieved first place and top ten rankings in
global machine learning contests, earning the titles of
Kaggle Expert and Numerai Expert for these challenges.
Recently, he also earned a MicroMaster’s in finance from
MIT’s Sloan School of Management.
Ernest Chan (Ernie) is the founder and chief scientific
officer of Predictnow.ai (www.predictnow.ai), which offers
AI-driven adaptive optimization solutions to the finance
industry and beyond. He is also the founder and
nonexecutive chairperson of QTS Capital Management
(www.qtscm.com), a quantitative CTA/CPO since 2011. He
started his career as a machine learning researcher at
IBM’s T.J. Watson Research Center’s language modeling
group, which produced some of the best-known quant fund
managers. Ernie is the acclaimed author of four previous
books, Quantitative Trading (2nd ed.), Algorithmic Trading,
Machine Trading, and Hands-on AI Trading all published by
Wiley. More about these books and Ernie’s workshops on
topics in quantitative investing and machine learning can
--- PAGE 25 ---
be found at www.epchan.com. He obtained his PhD in
physics from Cornell University and his BS in physics from
the University of Toronto.
--- PAGE 26 ---
Part I
Generative AI for Trading
and Asset Management: A
No-code Introduction
--- PAGE 27 ---
Chapter 1
No-code Generative AI for Basic
Quantitative Finance
In this chapter we want to demonstrate how Gen AI can be
used to do the basic tasks for which quantitative traders and
investors used to hire a professional programmer. We shall
find out to what extent we have succeeded. In all the
following examples, we have used a ChatGPT GPT-4o
subscription (at US$ 20/month as of this writing) since it is
the most well-known Gen AI service. But you can try
Microsoft Copilot (which has live internet access and often
gives different answers than ChatGPT because of different
“finetuning”), Google’s Gemini Pro ($19.99/month), xAI’s
Grok, or DeepSeek to see if they can do better.
We shall see that while we can enter English instructions into
ChatGPT, its best output is often code rather than numerical
answers.
Ernie has basic Python programming skills but is much more
proficient in Matlab. So, the following is written from the
point of view of someone who is a novice Python programmer
but an expert Matlab programmer. Let’s see if ChatGPT can
help such a person create useful Python code, either from
English instructions, or translating from existing Matlab
codes.
We will ask ChatGPT to do the following:
a. Retrieve adjusted historical prices of SPY and BIL.
b. Compute daily returns from those adjusted prices.
c. Compute the Sharpe ratio from those daily returns.
d. Analyze the data contained in an Excel spreadsheet.
--- PAGE 28 ---
e. Translate Matlab codes that use quadratic optimization to
compute the efficient frontier of an ETF portfolio to
Python code.
f. Use those Python codes to plot the efficient frontier.
In this and the next chapter, we will use the following boxes
to denote prompts to ChatGPT, responses from ChatGPT, and
our commentaries.
For user prompts, we will use the following format:
User Prompt
This is a user prompt.
For output from ChatGPT, including code, we will use the
following:
ChatGPT Response
A response from ChatGPT
# Here is an amazing Python code example.
import my_genai_trading_system # :)
% Or a MATLAB code example.
load_system('my_genai_trading_system') % :)
If we embed our own commentary within its response, we will
enclose it with [Author Note: …], as follows:
ChatGPT Response
# Here is an amazing Python code example.
import spicy # [Author Note: This should be
'scipy', not 'spicy'.]
--- PAGE 29 ---
Code, data, and relevant resources produced or required for
this chapter can be found in the corresponding chapter folder
within the book’s repository: https://github.com/genai-for-
traders/genai-for-trading-and-am. For this chapter, the files
are located in the chapter01 folder and includes scripts,
Jupyter notebooks, input data files, and any necessary code
for downloading or generating data.
1.1 Retrieving Historical Market Data
As readers of Ernie’s first book (Chan, 2021) know, when we
backtest a trading strategy on a stock, we must compute its
daily returns. To properly compute its daily returns, we must
use its closing prices adjusted for splits and dividends.
(Imagine if a stock split 1 to 2 before the market opens on
day . Without adjusting for splits, the return from day
to would be about −50% or so.) So, we entered one of the
most obvious prompts into ChatGPT:
User Prompt
Can you retrieve the daily closing prices of the ETF SPY
for the most recent 100 days? Please make sure they are
split and dividend adjusted.
--- PAGE 30 ---
ChatGPT Response
It seems that I currently don’t have access to the yfinance
library, which I typically use to retrieve financial data.
Therefore, I’m unable to directly fetch the daily prices of
the ETF SPY for the most recent 100 days.
However, you can easily obtain this information by using
financial data services like Yahoo Finance, Google
Finance, or Bloomberg. These platforms provide
comprehensive historical data, including split and
dividend adjustments. If you would like, I can guide you
through the process of retrieving this data using these
platforms.
Despite the seemingly unhelpful response as a no-code
assistant, it did provide a decent Python script that may
accomplish the task, which we included in Appendix A.1. We
will discuss that later. Let’s say we use that script to
download the below prices on our desktop, and upload them
as a csv file back into ChatGPT:
2023-08-25: $438.42
2023-08-28: $441.20
2023-08-29: $447.58
…
2023-12-11: $461.99
We asked this question on 2023-12-12, so the retrieved prices
correctly ended on 2023-12-11. They are identical to what
you would see on Yahoo Finance if you had done so on the
same day. It is difficult to verify that on a later date (such as
when you are reading this). Adjusted prices change
depending on when you retrieve them, but they should
produce the same daily returns no matter how the prices look
to you. So, let’s now compute the daily returns.
--- PAGE 31 ---
User Prompt
Please compute daily returns based on the above prices.
ChatGPT Response
…
To compute the daily returns, we use the formula:
I’ll calculate the daily returns for the SPY ETF based on
the adjusted closing prices provided:
… and so on for each subsequent day.
Let’s calculate these returns.
Here are the daily returns for the first five days:
…
These percentages represent the daily return for each
respective day. Would you like me to continue calculating
the daily returns for the remaining days?
Correct though these formula are, the output is difficult to
download and verify independently. So we ask:
--- PAGE 32 ---
User Prompt
Can you formulate the above output as a csv file with two
columns?
ChatGPT Response
Certainly! Here’s the data formatted as a CSV file with
two columns, “Date” and “Daily Return”:
Date,Daily Return
2023-09-12,-0.0055
2023-09-13,0.0012
...
2023-12-11,0.0039
We can copy and paste this output in a plain text file called
SPY Daily Returns.csv, and re-open it in Excel. Spot checking
a few prices around the dividend ex-date of 2023-09-15, we
verify that the returns were computed correctly, based on the
adjusted closing prices.
Anticipating that we will need the risk-free rate in order to
compute Sharpe ratio and other performance metrics for SPY
(or other trading strategies), we ask:
User Prompt
Over the same period of time as above, please retrieve the
daily risk free rate in % form.
--- PAGE 33 ---
ChatGPT Response
Retrieving the daily risk-free rate over a specific period,
like the one for the SPY ETF adjusted closing prices, can
be a bit more complex because there isn’t a direct source
that provides these rates in a daily format suitable for
immediate download and use in financial calculations.
(By the time you are reading this, ChatGPT will probably
have integrated different data sources that will enable it to
download the yield on the 3-Month U.S. Treasury Yield.)
In other words, it can’t do it unless data are available from
Yahoo Finance. But there is a proxy that we can use for risk
free returns: the SPDR Bloomberg 1–3 Month T-Bill ETF
(“BIL”). We will retrieve this by a simple modification of the
Python script described in Appendix A.1. We can use the
codes in Appendix A.3 to compute the daily returns of BIL,
which we can use as the (daily) risk free rate throughout the
book.
As any data scientist knows, one of the best ways to check
whether the results of a computation are correct is to plot
them.
User Prompt
Plot the annualized returns chart with the same x-axis. We
only need YYYY as x-axis labels.
You might think that the response to such a simple prompt
should be straightforward, but it was not. On the first
attempt, ChatGPT incorrectly annualized the returns by
multiplying the daily returns by instead of . At
another attempt it couldn’t parse the date/time format YYYY-
MM-DD hh:mm:ss-05:00 correctly.
--- PAGE 34 ---
User Prompt
What does the date and time format YYYY-MM-DD
hh:mm:ss-05:00 mean?
The response to this prompt is correct. The last hh:mm is the
timezone offset from UTC. For example, in December, YYYY-
MM-DD hh:mm:ss in New York will have −05:00 at the end.
After hours (!) of prompting, it finally produced the correct
plot. We reproduced the Python code accompanying the plot
in Appendix A.3. We recommend that you check out that code
because you will see that the raw data are not quite usable.
As a bonus, it gives us a bird’s eye view of the US economy
since 2007.
1.2 Computing Sharpe Ratio
With strenuous prompting (ChatGPT is like a mediocre and
inexperienced intern), we finally downloaded data on our
favorite ETFs SPY and BIL, computed the daily returns of
both, and can now use these data to compute its Sharpe ratio.
As we suggested previously, we want ChatGPT to display the
Python code for the computation instead of generating
numerical results directly.
User Prompt
Suppose a daily returns series A is stored in A.csv, and the
daily risk free rate is stored in B.csv, and the dates of A
and B are not identical though they overlap, how do we
compute the Sharpe ratio of A? Please display the Python
code.
We display the (largely correct) response obtained in
Appendix A.4. The Sharpe ratio computed in Appendix A.4 is
--- PAGE 35 ---
for the period 2023-08-25 to 2023-12-11, which was a very
bullish period. You can of course adapt the same prompts and
their resulting Python codes for other performance metrics
like maximum drawdown, Calmar ratio, and the like.
1.3 Data Formatting and Analysis
Not every spreadsheet that comes our way will be nicely
formatted like the one downloaded from Yahoo. One of the
most thankless and time-consuming task for a data analyst …
eh sorry … scientist, is to format the input data file correctly
so we can analyze it. For example, a colleague sent us the
Indices.xlsx file saved in https://github.com/genai-for-
traders/genai-for-trading-and-am/chapter01/. We have
anonymized the names of the indices to “A” “B” “C” but left
everything else unchanged. The file contains lots of floating
detritus such as the names of these indices, the start and end
dates of the data, and #N/A for those dates that did not have
data. Let’s see if ChatGPT can make the task of analyzing this
data easier.
User Prompt
This file contains four columns of pricing data. Can you
tell me the column names for these data?
[Author Note: we can attach a file to the prompt in
ChatGPT.]
ChatGPT Response
Unfortunately, I encountered an error while trying to
access and read the newly uploaded file. This could be due
to a variety of reasons such as file format issues or
compatibility problems.
--- PAGE 36 ---
That’s not promising! When we tried this a couple of months
back, it had no problem analyzing the same data. After
several hours of trial and error, a trivial solution worked: we
just logged out and back in again. This is often frustratingly
the case with ChatGPT: the indeterministic and
irreproducible nature of the results. Now the response is:
ChatGPT Response
The Excel file you provided contains the following column
names:
1. Unnamed: 0
2. Unnamed: 1
3. [A column named with a date: 2000-01-03]
4. Unnamed: 3
5. Unnamed: 4
6. Unnamed: 5
7. Unnamed: 6
8. Unnamed: 7
9. Unnamed: 8
10. Unnamed: 9
…
Clearly, it needs a bit of human help. So
User Prompt
Use row 6, columns G to J as the column names for the
pricing data.
--- PAGE 37 ---
ChatGPT Response
A Index
B Index
C Index
D Index
...
which is correct.
User Prompt
Compute the daily returns of these four indices.
ChatGPT Response
It appears there was an error in calculating the daily
returns, likely due to the presence of non-numeric data in
the columns.
The NaNs are tripping ChatGPT up. So
User Prompt
For those cells with NaN, you can output NaN as returns.
But otherwise, display their numerical results.
After this prompt, ChatGPT attempted to compute the daily
returns for several subsets of the data, and without the dates
column. Finally, we prompted
--- PAGE 38 ---
User Prompt
I want the analysis to start from the first row to the last
row, and output a .csv file for the results.
It computed the current daily returns for all the data saved in
a .csv file. For example,
User Prompt
What are the returns on 11/6/2023?
ChatGPT Response
The daily returns for the indices on November 6, 2023, are
as follows:
A Index: 0.001378
B Index: −0.004321
C Index: −0.003129
D Index: −0.000333
...
User Prompt
Using these daily returns, please compute the annualized
Sharpe ratio of the A Index from 2019/1/7 to 2023/7/3,
assuming risk free rate of 0.
ChatGPT Response
The annualized Sharpe ratio of the A Index for the period
from January 7, 2019, to July 3, 2023, assuming a risk-free
rate of 0, is approximately 0.732.
--- PAGE 39 ---
Once we spot-checked a few numbers like this, it is much
more convenient and efficient to use ChatGPT to extract
other statistical information on all or parts of the data instead
of using Excel or Python. ChatGPT can be a great friend to
data analysts … sorry … scientists.
1.4 Translating Matlab Codes to Python
Codes
Readers of Ernie’s previous three books know that they are
written in Matlab, for reasons explained in his third book,
Machine Trading (Chan, 2017). Even though he subsequently
added Python codes to the online code repositories for the
first two books, there aren’t such codes for Machine Trading.
We will see if we can use ChatGPT to translate such Matlab
codes to Python.
The first code example in Machine Trading (ef.m) is about
computing the efficient frontier of a portfolio of ETFs and
finding the tangency portfolio (the one that maximizes
Sharpe ratio historically). For our readers’ convenience, we
have reproduced that in Appendix A.5.
Now let’s ask ChatGPT to translate this into Python. You can
just upload ef.m and ask for translation, or you can copy and
paste the entire file as text into the prompt.
--- PAGE 40 ---
User Prompt
Translate the following Matlab code to Python:
% ef.m
% Find efficient frontier of a set of ETFs
% Note in this program mean and sd of returns are
row vectors,
clear;
load('inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417', 'stocks',
'tday', 'cl');
...
Author Note: see A.5
--- PAGE 41 ---
ChatGPT Response
To translate this MATLAB code to Python, we’ll use
libraries such as NumPy for numerical computations and
SciPy for optimization (specifically, quadratic
programming). The MATLAB code is used to find the
efficient frontier for a set of ETFs, compute the tangency
portfolio, and find the minimum variance portfolio. Here’s
the equivalent Python code:
--- PAGE 42 ---
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
from scipy.optimize import minimize
# Assuming 'inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417.csv' is
a CSV file with columns 'stocks', 'tday', and 'cl'
# Load data (you'll need to replace this with your
actual data loading mechanism)
data =
pd.read_csv('inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417.csv')
stocks = data['stocks'].unique()
cl = data.pivot(index='tday', columns='stocks',
values='cl')
# Remove 'EWZ' and 'FXI'
cl = cl.drop(columns=['EWZ', 'FXI'])
# Calculate returns
R = cl.pct_change().dropna()
# Mean and covariance of returns
mi = R.mean()
C = R.cov()
# Prepare different target mean portfolio returns
for efficient frontier
m = np.linspace(mi.min(), mi.max(), 21)
v = np.zeros_like(m)
# Variance of portfolio to be minimized
H = 2 * C.values
# Short sale constraint
A = -np.eye(len(mi))
b = np.zeros(len(mi))
# No linear term in minimization
f = np.zeros(len(mi))
# Efficient frontier calculation
for i in range(len(m)):
--- PAGE 43 ---
Aeq = np.vstack([mi, np.ones(len(mi))])
beq = np.array([m[i], 1])
def objective(F):
return F @ H @ F
constraints = ({'type': 'eq', 'fun': lambda F:
np.dot(Aeq[0], F) - beq[0]},
{'type': 'eq', 'fun': lambda F:
np.dot(Aeq[1], F) - beq[1]})
bounds = [(0, None)] * len(mi)
result = minimize(objective, np.ones(len(mi)) /
len(mi), bounds=bounds, constraints=constraints)
v[i] = result.fun
sd = np.sqrt(v)
plt.scatter(sd, m)
plt.xlabel('Standard Deviation')
plt.ylabel('Mean Return')
plt.title('Efficient Frontier')
plt.show()
# Find tangency portfolio
sharpe_ratio = m / sd
idx = np.argmax(sharpe_ratio)
# Find minimum variance portfolio
idx_min = np.argmin(sd)
# For further details like the weights of the
tangency and minimum variance portfolios,
# use the 'idx' and 'idx_min' with the 'minimize'
function as shown above.
ChatGPT goes on to respond:
--- PAGE 44 ---
ChatGPT Response
This code does the following:
Loads the ETF data and computes daily returns.
Calculates the mean and covariance of the returns. Uses
quadratic programming (via scipy.optimize.minimize) to
find the efficient frontier, tangency portfolio, and
minimum variance portfolio.
Note: The inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417.csv
should be replaced with the actual file name and path you
have. This code assumes the data is in a long format with
“stocks,” “tday” (date), and “cl” (close price) columns.
Adjust the data loading and manipulation according to
your actual data format. The plotting part (using
matplotlib.pyplot) is minimal; you might want to enhance
it based on your specific visualization requirements.
The first hurdle in comparing the output of the Python codes
to the Matlab codes is that the Python code expects a .csv
input file in the “long format,” i.e., it assumes that price data
corresponding to different stocks to be stacked into rows one
day at a time. For example,
20050512 EWC 1412
20050512 EWG 1388
20050512 EWJ 894
…
20150417 EWY 6102
20150417 EWZ 3453
20150417 FXI 5003
Assuming that we are not expert Matlab programmers, we
ask ChatGPT to create Matlab code that can save the
information in the input .mat file into a .csv.
--- PAGE 45 ---
User Prompt
In the Matlab code, we assumed that the input file
inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417.mat has a cell array
stocks with length S, a double array tday with length T,
and a double array cl with dimension TxS. What Matlab
code can we write to output a csv file that conforms to the
format assumed in the input .csv file of the Python code?
ChatGPT Response
% Load data from .mat file
load('inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417.mat',
'stocks', 'tday', 'cl');
% Initialize a table with 'tday' as the first column
outputData = array2table(tday, 'VariableNames',
{'tday'});
% Add columns for each stock, with closing prices as
values
for i = 1:length(stocks)
outputData.(stocks{i}) = cl(:, i);
end
% Reshape the data to long format
outputDataLong = stack(outputData, stocks,
'NewDataVariableName', 'cl', 'IndexVariableName',
'stocks');
% Write to CSV
writetable(outputDataLong, 'outputData.csv');
The output data file looks reasonable. Renaming
outputData.csv to “inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417.csv”
will let us test the Python code.
--- PAGE 46 ---
From this point on, our voyage becomes treacherous. The
Python codes ChatGPT translated from Matlab didn’t work at
first. We will display below the tedious prompt-vs-response
between the human and the machine where we coached
ChatGPT to produce codes that finally work, not because we
are sadistic, but because it illustrates what it takes to
squeeze the correct codes out of ChatGPT.
Running the Python code results in error
“ModuleNotFoundError: No module named ‘scipy’.”
Prompting ChatGPT for help generates:
ChatGPT Response
The error “ModuleNotFoundError: No module named
‘scipy’” indicates that the SciPy library, which is essential
for the optimization part of the code (specifically, the
minimize function used for quadratic programming), is not
installed in your Python environment.
To resolve this, you will need to install the SciPy library. If
you are using a standard Python installation, you can
install SciPy using pip, which is the Python package
manager. Here’s how you can do it:
Open your command line interface (CLI). Run the
following command:
pip install scipy
which we did. Running the Python code again resulted in
error:
--- PAGE 47 ---
NameError Traceback
(most recent call last)
Cell In[1], line 50
47 v[i] = result.fun
49 sd = np.sqrt(v)
---> 50 plt.scatter(sd, m)
51 plt.xlabel('Standard Deviation')
52 plt.ylabel('Mean Return')
NameError: name 'plt' is not defined
Confronting ChatGPT with this error yields:
ChatGPT Response
The error you’re encountering, “NameError: name ‘plt’ is
not defined,” indicates that the matplotlib.pyplot module,
commonly imported as plt, has not been imported in your
Python script. This module is necessary for plotting the
efficient frontier.
To resolve this, you need to import matplotlib.pyplot at the
beginning of your script. Here’s the corrected segment of
the Python code with the necessary import statement:
...
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt # Import matplotlib
for plotting
# [Rest of your code]
Nice of ChatGPT to tell us that, but why didn’t it add that in
the beginning? Anyway, the code now generated the Figure
1.1. (If you want to save this to a .png file, remember to add
plt.tight_layout() before plt.savefig(plot_file_path).)
--- PAGE 48 ---
Figure 1.1 Efficient frontier based on Python code
generated by ChatGPT.
Comparing this plot with the efficient frontier plotted by the
Matlab code in Appendix A.5, we see clearly that there is
something wrong with the Python code. The scales of the x
and y axes are correct. The coordinates of the minimum
variance portfolio (corresponding to the green dot on the
Matlab chart) also seem right. But what happened to the
portfolios with the lowest two mean returns? Drilling down
into the details, the mean returns vectors mi from both
programs match. The covariance matrices C from both
programs also match. Following the suggestion from
ChatGPT above, let’s compute the weights for the tangency
portfolio:
--- PAGE 49 ---
Aeq = np.vstack([mi, np.ones(len(mi))])
beq = np.array([m[idx], 1])
def objective(F):
return F @ H @ F
constraints = ({'type': 'eq', 'fun': lambda F:
np.dot(Aeq[0], F) - beq[0]},
{'type': 'eq', 'fun': lambda F:
np.dot(Aeq[1], F) - beq[1]})
bounds = [(0, None)] * len(mi)
result = minimize(objective, np.ones(len(mi)) /
len(mi), bounds=bounds, constraints=constraints)
tangency_portfolio_weights = result.x
tangency_portfolio_weights are found to be [0.19413052,
0.2978653, 0., 0.01713741, 0., 0.49086677] which are very
different from F = [0.3815, 0, 0.6040, 0.0001, 0.0143, 0]
found by Matlab. Plugging these weights back into the array
for the Sharpe ratios at different weights, we found that
Matlab gave a Sharpe ratio of 0.0283 for the tangency
portfolio vs Python’s 0.0194. Clearly, Matlab’s optimization is
better. This is, however, not really the fault of ChatGPT, as a
line-by-line comparison of the codes revealed nothing
erroneous. In fact, we are pleasantly surprised that it was
able to find an optimization package (“minimize”) in scipy
that reasonably mirrors the quadratic optimization function
in Matlab. The fault lies squarely with Python’s subpar
optimization package. As Ernie has maintained in Machine
Trading (Chan, 2017), Python is a poor cousin of Matlab—you
use it at your own peril. While Matlab’s codes are developed
and maintained commercially by a team of full-time
professionals and PhDs, Python’s codes are developed and
maintained by essentially a group of part-time volunteers. (A
bit of grapevine gossip: the Father of Deep Learning and
Nobel prize laureate, Dr. Geoff Hinton himself, was known to
prefer Matlab to Python in his own research.)
--- PAGE 50 ---
1.5 Conclusion
We have asked ChatGPT to retrieve historical data from the
web, compute returns and Sharpe ratio from these returns,
conduct exploratory data analysis, apply quadratic
optimization to compute the efficient frontier, and in general
translate Matlab to Python codes. With an annoyingly large
amount of coaching (i.e., prompting) and vigilant error-
checking, we conclude that ChatGPT is capable of these
tasks. At the very least, it can generate a first draft from
which human quants can use to build better codes. This is
especially helpful when the human is not an expert
programmer. For example, finding the exact syntax to
generate the precise chart we want in Python is tedious and
time consuming for a native Matlab programmer like Ernie—
a task that ChatGPT can do efficiently using English
instructions and with minimal room for serious error. The
keyword here is “codes”—we found it much better to ask
ChatGPT to suggest codes that we can audit (see Alshahwan
et al., 2024) and modify than to provide the direct numerical
answers to our questions.
In the next chapter, we will be more ambitious and see if Gen
AI can help us backtest or even suggest quantitative trading
strategies.
--- PAGE 51 ---
Chapter 2
No-code Generative AI for Trading
Strategies Development
In the previous chapter, we found that with sufficient
patience and prompting, we can get ChatGPT to perform
basic financial data science tasks such as retrieving,
exploring, and plotting data and computing performance
statistics from them. Though the instructions are all in
English, the output are frequently codes (especially Python
codes). We still consider that no-code usage of Gen AI.
In this chapter, we will see if no-code Gen AI can handle more
challenging tasks such as turning a trading strategy
specification in English into backtest codes, and even more
ambitious, suggest a trading strategy based on a vague
human insight. As a reminder, Ernie has basic Python
programming skills, is much more proficient in MATLAB, and
is a hedge fund founder. This means he has extensive
experience and domain knowledge in finance. In the following
examples, the author approaches the development of the
examples as someone who is an expert in the finance field,
but not a professional programmer or a specialist in prompt
engineering (like many professional asset managers). He
needs help coding in a new language. Let’s see if ChatGPT
can help him. Spoiler alert: ChatGPT’s responses will likely
improve in later releases.
As in Chapter 1, we use ChatGPT GPT-4o for our tests. You
can also try Microsoft’s Copilot, Google’s Gemini Pro, xAI’s
Grok, or DeepSeek to see if they can do better. We will ask
ChatGPT to do the following:
a. Create Python codes to backtest a long-short equity
investment strategy that Ernie specified, which uses
--- PAGE 52 ---
Fama-French factors to predict individual stocks’ returns.
b. Create Python codes to backtest a hedged VIX futures
carry strategy from a published paper.
c. Conduct a literature search to find a portfolio
optimization technique that uses deep reinforcement
learning and that can adapt to regime changes.
d. Suggest and conduct exploratory analysis of a SPX
options calendar spread trading strategy.
Once again, we will use the following boxes to denote
prompts to ChatGPT, responses from ChatGPT, and our
commentaries.
For user prompts, we will use the following format:
User Prompt
This is a user prompt.
For output from ChatGPT, including code, we will use:
ChatGPT Response
A response from ChatGPT
# Here is an amazing Python code example.
import my_genai_trading_system # :)
% Or a MATLAB code example.
load_system('my_genai_trading_system') % :)
If we embed our own commentary within its response, we will
enclose it with [Author Note: …], for example:
--- PAGE 53 ---
ChatGPT Response
# Here is an amazing Python code example.
import spicy # [Author Note: This should be
'scipy', not 'spicy'.]
Once again, code, data, and relevant resources produced or
required for this chapter can be found in the corresponding
chapter folder within the book’s repository:
https://github.com/genai-for-traders/genai-for-trading-and-
am. For this chapter, the files are located in the chapter02
folder and include scripts, Jupyter notebooks, input data files,
and any necessary code for downloading or generating data.
2.1 Creating Codes from a Strategy
Specification
In Machine Trading (Chan, 2017), Ernie created a toy
strategy that used the Fama-French three-factor model to
predict stocks’ returns and backtested the performance of a
trading strategy based on those predictions. Let’s ask
ChatGPT to create all the Python codes necessary for the
backtest by just specifying the strategy in English. (Recall
that Chan, 2017 only has Matlab codes.)
User Prompt
In the following dialogue, pretend you are a quantitative
finance expert.
--- PAGE 54 ---
ChatGPT Response
… [Author Note: The response is a lot of unimportant
babble. Some research suggests it results in better
responses if we first prime ChatGPT on a particular
application area. See Kıcıman et al. (2023).]
User Prompt
Fama-French factors are often used to explain the returns
of a portfolio of stocks. What are the Fama-French
factors?
--- PAGE 55 ---
ChatGPT Response
The Fama-French factors are a set of three factors (and
later expanded to five) introduced by Eugene F. Fama and
Kenneth R. French. They are used in finance to explain the
returns of a stock portfolio, going beyond the traditional
Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), which uses only
market risk (beta) to explain returns. Here’s a breakdown
of these factors:
Original Three Factors
Market Risk (Rm - Rf):
This is the same as in CAPM, representing the excess
return of a portfolio over the risk-free rate, capturing the
market risk. Rm stands for the return of the market
portfolio, and Rf is the risk-free rate.
Size Factor (SMB - Small Minus Big):
SMB stands for “Small [market capitalization] Minus Big”.
It captures the historical excess returns of small-cap
stocks over big-cap stocks. The factor is based on the
observation that, over long periods, small-cap stocks tend
to outperform large-cap stocks.
Value Factor (HML - High Minus Low):
HML stands for “High [book-to-market ratio] Minus Low”.
This factor captures the excess returns of value stocks
(with high book-to-market ratios) over growth stocks (with
low book-to-market ratios). Value stocks are those that are
typically undervalued by the market but have strong
fundamentals.
…
So far so good—at least ChatGPT regurgitates the correct
information that you can find in any quantitative finance
--- PAGE 56 ---
textbook (e.g., Ruppert and Matteson, 2015) or even
Wikipedia. Now let’s get it to produce codes.
User Prompt
Let’s focus only on the original Fama-French three factors.
Instead of using them to explain contemporaneous returns
of stocks in a portfolio, let’s use them to predict the next
day’s returns of these stocks. Can you display the
mathematical setup for this prediction?
--- PAGE 57 ---
ChatGPT Response
Certainly! To use the original Fama-French three factors
for predicting the next day’s returns of stocks in a
portfolio, we set up a predictive linear regression model.
In this model, the future stock returns are the dependent
variable, and the current values of the Fama-French
factors are the independent variables. The mathematical
setup for this predictive model is as follows:
Let’s denote: [Author Note: We did some light editing of
the LaTeX code to make it more readable.]
: The return of stock in the next day (day ).
: The excess return of the market over the risk
free rate in the current day .
: The small minus big factor in the current day.
: The high minus low factor in the current day.
: Coefficients to be estimated for stock .
: The error term for stock in month [Author Note:
This should be day, not month] .
The linear regression model for each stock can be
represented as:
In this model:
, is the intercept term for stock .
are the coefficients measuring the sensitivities
of stock ’s returns to the market excess return, SMB, and
HML factors, respectively.
captures the residual effects not explained by the
model.
--- PAGE 58 ---
This setup allows for the prediction of next day’s returns
for each stock in the portfolio based on the current values
of the Fama-French factors. It’s important to note that
while this model uses historical relationships to make
predictions, the accuracy of these predictions can vary
due to market volatility, economic changes, and other
factors not captured by the model.
User Prompt
Correct. Can you turn this mathematical model into
Python code?
To which ChatGPT responded with Python codes that
represent the linear regression of a single stock’s returns
against the Fama-French factors. Obviously, that isn’t
complete. Also, as a prerequisite, we will need data. Assume
that the prices are contained in the file “CRSP_mid.csv,”
which contains data formatted as follows:
tday syms mid
20070103 ABT 8.867780
20070103 HON 37.689365
20070103 AA 25.932974
20070103 BEAM 45.437196
20070103 AEP 31.218061
... ... ... ...
20131231 GGP 20.055000
20131231 MHK 148.904995
20131231 ADS 262.945005
20131231 FB 54.655000
20131231 TSCO NaN
[1309166 rows × 3 columns]
While we cannot share this data due to licensing restrictions,
you can construct a similar file from any daily stock
--- PAGE 59 ---
survivorship-bias-free data, such as that from Sharadar. (See
a list of other data vendors in Chan [2017].)
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to help you convert whatever data you
purchased into the “long” format shown in Section 1.4.
* * *
We asked ChatGPT for the code for computing the future 1-
day return, and it responded with something that looked like
the code in Appendix 2A.1 at the end of this chapter. The
original code wasn’t perfect, but if you know a bit of Python,
it is easy to fix it up.
Next, we need to upload the Fama-French data file, which is
available from
https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/da
ta_library.html as “F-F_Research_Data_Factors_daily.CSV.”
We again prompted ChatGPT for the codes, and the response
is passable. After we edited it lightly, the code is displayed in
Appendix 2A.2. We also prompted for the codes for merging
the labels (future 1-day return) and the features (Fama-
French factors) into one dataframe for use as our training
data. Those are shown in Appendix 2A.3.
Now we are ready to train a regression model, or more
precisely, train regression models for all the stocks. We
started with the following:
User Prompt
The linear regression model you proposed above is
correct, but it is for one stock only. Can you display the
codes for all the stocks in the data?
--- PAGE 60 ---
ChatGPT Response
…
# Assuming 'Stock_ID' and '1_Day_Returns' are
columns in your next month
returns data
# Train a model for each stock
for stock_id in combined_data['Stock_ID'].unique():
stock_data =
combined_data[combined_data['Stock_ID'] == stock_id]
X = stock_data[['Mkt-RF', 'SMB', 'HML']] #
Replace with actual Fama-French column names
y = stock_data['1_Day_Returns']
model = LinearRegression().fit(X, y)
# Save or use the model for each stock
The code looks correct. But unfortunately, it can’t handle any
NaNs in the data, and financial data (or indeed any data) is
full of such missing values. So, we try again.
User Prompt
Correct, but what if the X and y contains NaN?
ChatGPT Response
as most machine learning algorithms, including linear
regression in scikit-learn, cannot handle NaN values
directly. To address this, you have a few options: …
The statement that “most machine learning algorithms
cannot handle NaN” is wrong. Certainly most if not all
algorithms in Matlab’s Statistics and Machine Learning
Toolbox can handle NaN. We want to catch ChatGPT in its lie:
--- PAGE 61 ---
User Prompt
Can LightGBM handle NaNs in the input?
ChatGPT Response
Yes, LightGBM, a gradient boosting framework that uses
tree-based learning algorithms, can handle NaN (Not a
Number) values in its input data. …
Which directly contradicts ChatGPT’s own statement above!
Self-consistency is not a forte of Gen AI.
User Prompt
Is there any Python package for linear regression that can
handle NaN in the input data?
ChatGPT Response
… Statsmodels, another statistical modeling library in
Python, can handle missing data using the missing=‘drop’
parameter in its model-fitting functions. This tells the
model to automatically drop observations with NaNs.
import statsmodels.api as sm
model = sm.OLS(y, X, missing='drop').fit()
Note that this approach drops any row with NaNs, similar
to using dropna() in pandas, but it’s done internally within
the model.
So, we tried replacing the line
--- PAGE 62 ---
model = LinearRegression().fit(X, y)
with the sm.OLS line (after running pip install statsmodel).
Well, that didn’t work either, because sm.OLS is interpreting
the missing=‘drop’ option as weights. ChatGPT has no idea
why, and suggested we remove all rows with NaN before
running the LinearRegression in scikit-learn.
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
# Assuming 'combined_data' is your DataFrame
some_minimum_threshold=100 # Define a threshold as per
your analysis
for stock_id in combined_data['Stock_ID'].unique():
stock_data =
combined_data[combined_data['Stock_ID'] == stock_id]
# Remove rows where any of the columns have NaN
values
stock_data = stock_data.dropna(subset=
['1_Day_Returns', 'Mkt-RF', 'SMB', 'HML'])
X = stock_data[['Mkt-RF', 'SMB', 'HML']]
y = stock_data['1_Day_Returns']
# Ensure that X and y have enough data points
if len(X) > some_minimum_threshold: # Define a
threshold as per your analysis
model = LinearRegression().fit(X, y)
print({
'Stock_ID': stock_id,
'Intercept': model.intercept_,
'Beta_Market': model.coef_[0],
'Beta_SMB': model.coef_[1],
'Beta_HML': model.coef_[2]
})
--- PAGE 63 ---
That seems to work. But we don’t want to fit a regression
model using all our data—we need to leave some data for out-
of-sample testing of our trading strategy. So let’s use the first
half for training:
User Prompt
The program you created above using Linear Regression
to predict 1-day return is correct, but can you modify it so
that it uses only the first half of the data for fitting?
ChatGPT Response
…
# Split the data into two halves
halfway_point = len(combined_data) // 2
training_data = combined_data.iloc[:halfway_point]
#...
for stock_id in training_data['Stock_ID'].unique():
# Filter training data for the current stock
stock_data =
training_data[training_data['Stock_ID'] == stock_id]
#...
The changes look correct and are easy enough to incorporate
in our original program. (See the final code fragment in the
#%%Train model cell in ff_1day.py, available for download
from our GitHub.)
We will need to make predictions using the previous trained
(fitted) model. Let’s ask ChatGPT how to do that.
--- PAGE 64 ---
User Prompt
With the fitted regression model above, how do you make
predictions using input “features”?
ChatGPT responded with some very cumbersome codes that
explicitly multiplies the regression coefficients such as
“Beta_Market” with the input features contained in X. So, we
asked it to make them more elegant.
User Prompt
Instead of explicitly using the names of the model
coefficients to make these predictions, can you call some
predict function generic to a regression model object?
--- PAGE 65 ---
ChatGPT Response
Certainly! To use a generic predict function that is
common to regression model objects, you would typically
save each fitted model object for each stock during the
training process, and then use the predict method of these
model objects to make predictions. This approach is more
flexible and aligns with standard practices in model
deployment.
Here’s how you can adjust the code to include saving the
fitted model objects and then using their predict methods:
Step 1: Save Each Fitted Model
While training the models, save each fitted model object
into a dictionary where the keys are the stock IDs:
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
# Dictionary to store the model for each stock
fitted_models = {}
for stock_id in training_data['Stock_ID'].unique():
# ... [Data preparation steps]
# Fit the model
model = LinearRegression().fit(X, y)
# Store the fitted model
fitted_models[stock_id] = model
Step 2: Predict Using the Saved Models
Use the predict method of each saved model to make
predictions on new data:
--- PAGE 66 ---
def predict_returns(fitted_models, features):
"""
Make predictions for each stock using the fitted
models.
:param fitted_models: Dictionary of fitted model
objects for each stock
:param features: DataFrame with new input
features for prediction
:return: A DataFrame with predicted returns for
each stock
"""
predictions = []
for stock_id, model in fitted_models.items():
# Select the features for the current stock
# stock_features =
features.loc[features['Stock_ID'] == stock_id,
['Market_Excess_Return', 'SMB', 'HML']]
# Modify this to
stock_features =
features.loc[features['Stock_ID'] == stock_id,
['Mkt-RF', 'SMB', 'HML']]
# Check if there are features to predict on
if not stock_features.empty:
# Make prediction
predicted_return =
model.predict(stock_features)
# Store the predictions
for i, prediction in
enumerate(predicted_return):
predictions.append({'Stock_ID':
stock_id,
'Predicted_Return': prediction,
'Date': stock_features.index[i]}
)
return pd.DataFrame(predictions)
# Example usage
--- PAGE 67 ---
# features = pd.DataFrame(...) # Replace with your
new input features DataFrame
predicted_returns = predict_returns(fitted_models,
training_data)
print(predicted_returns)
In this updated code:
The predict_returns function iterates through each
fitted model in fitted_models.
It uses the predict method on the subset of features
corresponding to each stock.
The function compiles the predictions into a
DataFrame.
Ensure that the features DataFrame is structured
correctly with the Fama-French factors and stock IDs. This
approach allows for more flexibility and is more aligned
with typical model deployment practices.
Granted, we would only know to ask this question if we have
prior knowledge that fitted models from scikit-learn or
statsmodels come with a predict function, so clearly this
won’t work for someone completely unfamiliar with Python
and its data science libraries. Furthermore, though this code
looks useful because it helps us save the fitted models
somewhere as well, it isn’t quite correct.
A fundamental problem with the predict_returns function is
that it is expecting the input stock_features to have an index,
“stock_id.” This may be appropriate for “cross-sectional”
features (see Nautiyal and Chan [2021]), but certainly not for
“time-series” features. When we told ChatGPT that these are
time-series features that do not have stock_id as index, it
thinks we must be predicting the returns of the portfolio as a
whole, not the returns of the individual stocks in that
portfolio. So, more prompting is needed to clarify.
--- PAGE 68 ---
User Prompt
Maybe it is common to use time-series factors to predict
portfolio returns, but here, we have trained our models to
predict returns for each stock. Modify your function
accordingly.
--- PAGE 69 ---
ChatGPT Response
…
--- PAGE 70 ---
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
def predict_returns(fitted_models, features_today):
"""
Predict returns for each stock for a single day
using their respective fitted models.
:param fitted_models: Dictionary of fitted model
objects for each stock
:param features_today: DataFrame or Series with
input features for a single day
:return: A Series with predicted returns for
each stock
"""
predictions = {}
# Ensure features_today is in the correct format
(2D array)
if isinstance(features_today, pd.Series):
features_today =
features_today.values.reshape(1, -1)
elif isinstance(features_today, pd.DataFrame):
features_today = features_today.values
# Iterate over each model and predict the return
for each stock
for stock_id, model in fitted_models.items():
# Predict the return for the current stock
using the common features
predicted_return =
model.predict(features_today)
# If the model returns a list/array, take
the first element as the prediction
if isinstance(predicted_return, (list,
np.ndarray)):
predictions[stock_id] =
predicted_return[0]
--- PAGE 71 ---
else:
predictions[stock_id] = predicted_return
return pd.Series(predictions)
Ultimately, none of the codes produced by ChatGPT quite
worked. Ernie had to use his limited Python skills to mix-and-
match different codes to produce the final function.
--- PAGE 72 ---
# Predicting returns
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
def predict_returns(fitted_models, features_today):
"""
Predict returns for each stock for a single day
using their respective fitted models.
:param fitted_models: Dictionary of fitted model
objects for each stock
:param features_today: DataFrame or Series with
input features for a single day
:return: A Series with predicted returns for each
stock
"""
predictions = {}
# Ensure features_today is in the correct format
(2D array)
features_today = features_today[['Mkt-RF', 'SMB',
'HML']]
features_today = features_today.values.reshape(1,
-1)
# Iterate over each model and predict the return
for each stock
for stock_id, model in fitted_models.items():
# Predict the return for the current stock
using the common features
predicted_return =
model.predict(features_today)
# If the model returns a list/array, take the
first element as the prediction
predictions[stock_id] = predicted_return[0]
return pd.Series(predictions)
--- PAGE 73 ---
If you run this code as
predicted_returns = predict_returns(fitted_models,
features_today)
where features today is a pd.Series that looks like
Mkt-RF -0.04
SMB 0.08
HML -0.11
RF 0.022
and fitted_models is an output of the training codes above,
the output will look like this:
0033A 0.044187
3511B 0.057673
3FMCC -0.139659
3FNMA -0.112233
5933B 0.045648
...
XTO 0.016649
YHOO -0.012752
YUM 0.015054
ZION -0.039987
ZMH -0.007693
Length: 553, dtype: float64
Now we need to incorporate these predictions in a backtest
program for the trading strategy. But let’s test if ChatGPT
understands what a trading strategy is first.
--- PAGE 74 ---
User Prompt
Imagine a trading strategy that buys the top 50 stocks
with the highest predicted returns and short the bottom
50, on a daily basis, and hold those positions for the next
30 days. What is the maximum number of positions we can
hold for a particular stock at any one time?
ChatGPT Response
Since you are trading daily and holding each position for
30 days, it means that on any given day, you could have up
to 30 overlapping positions for the same stock, each
initiated on a different day over the past 30 days. This
scenario assumes that the stock consistently appears
either in the top 50 or bottom 50 each day for 30
consecutive days.
Impressive! ChatGPT is finally showing some conceptual
intelligence that we felt wasn’t quite apparent until now.
However, when we asked it to convert this trading strategy to
backtest code (with 1-day holding period for simplicity and to
match the existing Matlab code), it produced versions that
are wrong in one aspect or another. In one version it is using
all the columns in the input data as features instead of just
selecting the three Fama-French factors. In another version,
it forgot that the input data has multiple rows of the same
date that correspond to different stock_Id’s. So, we had to
ask the following:
--- PAGE 75 ---
User Prompt
This doesn‘t fix the issue. The problem is that the for loop
goes over every row in the data, assuming that each row
refers to data of a different date. But that’s not true.
Currently it will repeatedly calculate portfolio_returns for
the same date many times as it iterates through the rows
of the data.
To which it regrettably responded with more erroneous
codes.
In a third version, ChatGPT thinks it is smart and looks at the
data 1-day ahead of the current date to look for the value
31_Day_Returns. But that is unnecessary because we created
1_Day_Returns as the return in the next day already. This is
another case where unless you understand Python, you won’t
be able to catch the error.
After many days (!) of prompting and manual adjustments,
we finally arrived at the following working version.
--- PAGE 76 ---
# Backtest long-short trading strategy
import pandas as pd
import warnings
warnings.filterwarnings('ignore') # Without suppression
of warnings, the program will freeze in Jupyter
Notebook due to too much output
# Function to execute the trading strategy
def execute_strategy(data, fitted_models,
holding_period=1):
portfolio_returns = []
# Get unique dates from the data
unique_dates = data['Date'].unique()
for day in range(len(unique_dates) -
holding_period):
# Get the current date
current_date = unique_dates[day]
# Filter data for the current date
data_today = data[data['Date'] == current_date]
# Get features for this day (assuming the
features are the same for all stocks on a given day)
features_today = data_today[['Mkt-RF', 'SMB',
'HML', 'RF']].iloc[0]
# Predict returns using the predict_returns
function
predicted_returns =
predict_returns(fitted_models, features_today)
# Implement your strategy: select top 50 and
bottom 50 stocks
top_50 = predicted_returns.nlargest(50)
bottom_50 = predicted_returns.nsmallest(50)
# Calculate returns for the selected stocks on
a current date
--- PAGE 77 ---
current_date = unique_dates[day]
current_data = data[data['Date'] ==
current_date]
#print(current_date)
long_returns =
current_data[current_data['Stock_ID'].isin(top_50.index
)]['1_Day_Returns'].mean()
short_returns = -
current_data[current_data['Stock_ID'].isin(bottom_50.in
dex)]['1_Day_Returns'].mean()
# Daily portfolio return
daily_portfolio_return = (long_returns +
short_returns) / 2
portfolio_returns.append(daily_portfolio_return)
return portfolio_returns
To execute this function, ChatGPT helpfully suggested
(correctly)
portfolio_returns=execute_strategy(training_data,
fitted_models)
It produces a list, not a pd.Series, which isn’t ideal because it
does not include timestamps. We shan’t be picky, so we said:
User Prompt
Correct! Please compute the Sharpe ratio.
--- PAGE 78 ---
ChatGPT Response
import numpy as np
# Calculate Sharpe Ratio
def calculate_sharpe_ratio(portfolio_returns,
risk_free_rate=0.02):
excess_returns = np.array(portfolio_returns) -
risk_free_rate / 252
sharpe_ratio = np.mean(excess_returns) /
np.std(excess_returns) * np.sqrt(252)
return sharpe_ratio
This brings up an important point that Ernie discussed in
Quantitative Trading (Chan, 2021). Let’s see if ChatGPT
understands this nuance.
User Prompt
In the calculate_sharpe_ratio function defined above, the
risk-free rate is defaulted to 0.02. For a long-short dollar-
neutral portfolio, should we deduct risk-free rate from the
returns in a Sharpe ratio calculation? In other words, is
excess returns the raw returns minus the risk-free rate?
--- PAGE 79 ---
ChatGPT Response
In the context of a long-short dollar-neutral portfolio, the
consideration of the risk-free rate in the calculation of the
Sharpe ratio can be a bit nuanced. Here’s how to think
about it:
Excess Returns: Typically, the Sharpe ratio is calculated
using excess returns, which are the portfolio’s returns
minus the risk-free rate. This is to assess how much
additional return the investment is providing over a risk-
free alternative (like Treasury bills).
Dollar-Neutral Portfolio: In a dollar-neutral portfolio,
you’re equally long and short in dollar terms.
Theoretically, such a portfolio might be seen as self-
financing, implying that its performance could be assessed
without considering the risk-free rate. The rationale is that
any interest you would earn on the long side (from
investing money) might be offset by the interest you would
pay on the short side (from borrowing money).
Practical Considerations: Practically, whether or not to
include the risk-free rate in the Sharpe ratio calculation
for a dollar-neutral portfolio depends on several factors:
Strategy and Leverage: If your strategy involves leverage
or financing costs, these should be factored into the return
calculation. Benchmarking: Consider what is standard
practice in your benchmark group or among your peers.
Investor Expectations: Consider what investors in your
fund would expect. They might compare your fund’s
performance to other investments, which typically are
assessed using excess returns over the risk-free rate. Risk-
Free Rate in Sharpe Ratio:
Include Risk-Free Rate: If you want to maintain
consistency with broader market practices and make your
Sharpe ratio comparable to others, you might include the
--- PAGE 80 ---
risk-free rate. Exclude Risk-Free Rate: If you believe that
your portfolio’s characteristics (like being dollar-neutral)
make the risk-free rate less relevant, you could exclude it.
In summary, whether to use raw returns or excess returns
(returns minus the risk-free rate) in the Sharpe ratio
calculation for a long-short dollar-neutral portfolio
depends on the specific characteristics of your portfolio
and your performance measurement goals. Both
approaches have rationales, but it’s important to be
consistent and clear about the method you choose,
especially when communicating with stakeholders or
investors.
Impressive! It got most of the nuance right. For a long-short
portfolio such as ours, we do not typically subtract risk-free
rate (Rf) from the raw returns in Sharpe ratio calculations for
the self-financing reason ChatGPT described. In other words,
investors with this portfolio can still earn margin interest on
the cash deposited in their accounts, and as long as you don’t
include such margin interest in your P&L, you also don’t need
to subtract Rf from your returns. But if you are running a
hedge fund and this portfolio is its sole holding, the fund’s
returns (ignoring management and performance fees) will
already have included this margin interest, and so in
reporting its Sharpe ratio, you must subtract Rf. During the
post-COVID era of high interest rates that reached more than
5%, this is an important consideration. Since we are not
including Rf as credit interest in our portfolio, we can also set
Rf to 0 in our following Sharpe ratio calculation.
--- PAGE 81 ---
# Calculate Sharpe Ratio
def calculate_sharpe_ratio(portfolio_returns,
risk_free_rate=0.0):
excess_returns = np.array(portfolio_returns) -
risk_free_rate / 252
sharpe_ratio = np.mean(excess_returns) /
np.std(excess_returns) * np.sqrt(252)
return sharpe_ratio
# Backtest the strategy
sharpe_ratio =
calculate_sharpe_ratio(portfolio_returns)
print("Sharpe Ratio:", sharpe_ratio)
which produces 6.5, much higher than the 3.7 that we
obtained from Matlab, on the training set. Which is right?
The reason the Python program seemingly outperformed the
Matlab program is that we have skipped all stocks with
insufficient data in the Python program, whereas in the
Matlab program, we have made a prediction of 0 returns for
those stocks—which wasn’t correct.
Let’s see how it performs on the test set.
User Prompt
Let’s say I have dataframe combined_data. I want to split
it into 2 two halves: training_data and test_data using
halfway_point = len(combined_data) // 2 training_data =
combined_data.iloc[:halfway_point]. How should I
compute test_data?
ChatGPT Response
test_data = combined_data.iloc[halfway_point:]
--- PAGE 82 ---
which is correct. Running the backtest on the test data
resulted in a Sharpe ratio of 0.55, which is much better than
the negative Sharpe from the Matlab program. The complete
process can be downloaded from ff_1day.py on our GitHub.
Now let’s display the cumulative return (“equity” or “Growth
of $1”) curve shown in Figure 2.1.
Figure 2.1 Cumulative returns of Fama-French three-
factor strategy.
User Prompt
Suppose the daily returns of a portfolio is contained in a
list portfolio_returns. Please display the cumulative
returns curve.
--- PAGE 83 ---
ChatGPT Response
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
# Example portfolio_returns list (replace this with
your actual returns)
portfolio_returns = [0.01, -0.005, 0.007, -0.003,
0.002, 0.01, -0.004]
# Calculate cumulative returns
cumulative_returns = np.cumprod(1 +
np.array(portfolio_returns)) – 1
# Plotting the cumulative returns curve
plt.figure(figsize=(10, 6))
plt.plot(cumulative_returns, marker='o',
linestyle='-')
plt.title('Cumulative Returns of the Portfolio')
plt.xlabel('Days')
plt.ylabel('Cumulative Returns')
plt.grid(True)
plt.show()
Remember, this is all on the test set. If you are wondering,
the drawdown started around 2012-09, and it had been
relentless until the end of the data 2023-12. This doesn’t
mean Fama-French factors can’t explain returns any more. It
just means factor loadings are no longer persistent from one
day to the next. As a side note, we did not try to make the
plots generated by ChatGPT look pretty since the goal was
just to show the raw outputs it produced. Sure, we could have
asked it to create better-looking figures, but that wasn’t the
point of this exercise. By the way, if you ask ChatGPT to
improve the style of plots in Python using Matplotlib or
Seaborn, it is actually really good at it.
--- PAGE 84 ---
2.2 Summarizing a Trading Strategy
Paper and Creating Backtest Codes
from It
Ernie’s second book, Algorithmic Trading (Chan, 2013,
p.143), describes an interday momentum trading strategy
involving the VIX futures. The strategy is based on a paper by
Simon and Campasano (2014). Let’s see if ChatGPT can read
and understand that paper and produce backtest codes for it.
User Prompt
Pretend you are a quantitative finance expert. Please
summarize the trading strategies described in this paper.
[Author Note: Remember we can upload a paper to
ChatGPT-4o.]
ChatGPT Response
…
the paper explores relative value spread trades, designed
to profit from deviations in the EH [Author Note:
Expectations Hypothesis]
…
The paper’s results suggest that the VIX futures market
presents opportunities for strategic trades based on its
term structure anomalies.
That summary is too high level. So, we asked it to be more
specific.
--- PAGE 85 ---
User Prompt
More specifically, generate pseudocodes for the relative
value spread trades, or any other trades based on term
structure anomalies.
--- PAGE 86 ---
ChatGPT Response
The paper describes a beta-neutral trading strategy (BN)
that involves maintaining a long position in constant-
maturity VIX futures with a long-maturity tenor (L) and a
simultaneous short position in constant-maturity VIX
futures with a short-maturity tenor (S). The goal of this
strategy is to ensure that the net position is VIX-neutral.
Here’s a simplified pseudocode for the beta-neutral
trading strategy:
# Define the beta-neutral (BN) trading strategy
Define BN_Trading_Strategy(long_maturity_tenor,
short_maturity_tenor, constant_maturity_betas):
# Initialize weights for long and short
positions
weight_long = (1 / beta_long) / ((1 / beta_long)
+ (1 / beta_short))
weight_short = 1 - weight_long
# Calculate daily payoff
daily_payoff = weight_long * return_long -
weight_short * return_short
return daily_payoff
# Example usage
long_maturity_tenor = L # Specify the long-maturity
tenor
short_maturity_tenor = S # Specify the short-
maturity tenor
constant_maturity_betas = Table_4_data # Retrieve
constant-maturity betas from table 4
# Calculate the daily payoff for the beta-neutral
trading strategy
daily_payoff =
BN_Trading_Strategy(long_maturity_tenor,
short_maturity_tenor, constant_maturity_betas)
--- PAGE 87 ---
In this pseudocode:
long_maturity_tenor and short_maturity_tenor are the
tenors for the long and short VIX futures positions,
respectively. constant_maturity_betas represents the betas
for each maturity, which can be retrieved from a specified
table (Table 4 in the paper). The weights for the long
(weight_long) and short (weight_short) positions are
calculated based on these betas. The daily_payoff is
computed as the weighted difference between the returns
of the long and short positions.
This actually isn’t the trading strategy the paper proposes.
The strategy proposed isn’t a calendar spread strategy. It is a
strategy to buy or short VIX futures based on whether it is in
backwardation or contango and then hedge its position by the
ES future with the same sign. Instead, we want ChatGPT to
focus on the following paragraph in the paper:
The simulations examine the profitability of shorting or
buying VIX futures contracts when the VIX futures basis is
in contango or backwardation, respectively, and the
efficiency of hedging market risk with mini-S&P futures
positions. The simulations then examine the impact of
modifying entry rules and then introducing exit rules based
on risk management strategies. All trading simulations
examine the profitability of shorting or buying the front
VIX futures contract that has at least ten business days
until settlement when the magnitude of the daily roll is
greater in magnitude than .10 VIX futures point ($100) per
day.13 The daily roll is defined as the difference between
the front VIX futures price and the VIX, divided by the
number of business days until the VIX futures contract
settles, and measures potential profits assuming that the
basis declines linearly until settlement.”
Let’s see how we can prompt it to do so.
--- PAGE 88 ---
User Prompt
In your pseudocodes above, you missed an important
trading rule. See especially the paragraph starting with
“The simulations examine the profitability of shorting or
buying VIX futures contracts when the VIX futures basis is
in contango or backwardation,…
[Author Note: We continued with the rest of the
paragraph just quoted.]”
--- PAGE 89 ---
ChatGPT Response
…
--- PAGE 90 ---
# Define the beta-neutral trading strategy with
contango/backwardation consideration
Define
BN_Trading_Strategy_With_Contango_Backwardation(long
_maturity_tenor, short_maturity_tenor,
constant_maturity_betas, VIX_term_structure_state):
# Determine trade direction based on the state
of the VIX futures term structure
if VIX_term_structure_state == "contango":
# In contango, buy long-maturity and sell
short-maturity VIX futures
trade_direction = "buy_long_sell_short"
elif VIX_term_structure_state ==
"backwardation":
# In backwardation, sell long-maturity and
buy short-maturity VIX futures
trade_direction = "sell_long_buy_short"
else:
return "No trade"
# Calculate weights for long and short positions
weight_long = (1 / beta_long) / ((1 / beta_long)
+ (1 / beta_short))
weight_short = 1 - weight_long
# Calculate daily payoff based on trade
direction
if trade_direction == "buy_long_sell_short":
daily_payoff = weight_long * return_long -
weight_short * return_short
elif trade_direction == "sell_long_buy_short":
daily_payoff = weight_short * return_short -
weight_long * return_long
return daily_payoff
# Example usage
VIX_term_structure_state =
Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State() # Function to
determine if VIX is in contango or backwardation
daily_payoff =
--- PAGE 91 ---
BN_Trading_Strategy_With_Contango_Backwardation(long
_maturity_tenor, short_maturity_tenor,
constant_maturity_betas, VIX_term_structure_state)
In this revised pseudocode, the function
Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State() is assumed to
analyze the VIX term structure and return either
“contango” or “backwardation”. The trading strategy then
adjusts its positions accordingly, either buying long and
selling short in a contango state or the reverse in a
backwardation state.
It still isn’t the strategy described in the paragraph, but at
least it mentioned the term structure criterion. Does ChatGPT
know how the authors of the paper define backwardation or
contango of the VIX futures? We shall find out.
User Prompt
Based on the paper, provide definition of the function
Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State(). That is, define
backwardation or contango based on the paper’s
definition.
--- PAGE 92 ---
ChatGPT Response
Based on the information in the paper, the
Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State() function can be
defined as follows:
Contango: The VIX futures curve is in a state of contango
when it is upward sloping. This means that the futures
prices are higher than the spot price of the VIX index, and
they increase as the time to maturity increases. In a
contango market, the long end of the futures curve is less
volatile, and the price ranges (difference between high
and low readings) and the volatility of prices decrease
with increasing time to maturity.
Backwardation: The VIX futures curve is in a state of
backwardation when it is downward sloping. This occurs
when the futures prices are lower than the spot price of
the VIX index, and they decrease as the time to maturity
increases. The long end of the curve in backwardation
would be more responsive to changes in the spot price.
Here’s how the Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State()
function could be defined in pseudocode:
--- PAGE 93 ---
# Define a function to determine the state of the
VIX term structure
Define
Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State(VIX_spot_price,
VIX_futures_prices):
# Compare spot price with futures prices for
different maturities
is_upward_sloping = True
for each maturity in VIX_futures_prices:
if VIX_futures_prices[maturity] <
VIX_spot_price:
is_upward_sloping = False
break
# Determine the term structure state based on
the slope
if is_upward_sloping:
return "contango"
else:
return "backwardation"
# Example usage
VIX_spot_price = Current_VIX_Spot_Price() #
Function to get the current VIX spot price
VIX_futures_prices = Get_VIX_Futures_Prices() #
Function to get VIX futures prices for different
maturities
term_structure_state =
Determine_VIX_Term_Structure_State(VIX_spot_price,
VIX_futures_prices)
In this pseudocode:
The VIX_spot_price is the current spot price of the VIX
index. VIX_futures_prices is a dictionary (or similar data
structure) that holds futures prices for various maturities.
The function compares the spot price with futures prices
for each maturity to check if the curve is upward or
--- PAGE 94 ---
downward sloping, thus determining if the term structure
is in contango or backwardation.
It got the definition of backwardation and contango right. But
still, we are missing trading rules that incorporate them.
User Prompt
That is correct definition of backwardation and contango.
But note the paragraph starting with “The simulations
examine….” It has a version of the strategy embedded
there. Please summarize that version and provide
pseudocodes.
--- PAGE 95 ---
ChatGPT Response
Thank you for providing the detailed paragraph. Based on
this information, the revised trading strategy involves:
Determining the State of the VIX Futures Basis: The
strategy involves shorting VIX futures contracts when the
VIX futures basis is in contango and buying them when in
backwardation.
Entry Rules: Trades are entered when the front VIX
futures contract, which has at least ten business days until
settlement, shows a daily roll greater in magnitude than
0.10 VIX futures points ($100) per day.
Daily Roll Calculation: The daily roll is calculated as the
difference between the front VIX futures price and the
VIX, divided by the number of business days until the VIX
futures contract settles. This measures potential profits
assuming that the basis declines linearly until settlement.
Exit Rules: Based on risk management strategies, the
strategy may also involve specific exit rules, though these
are not detailed in the paragraph you provided.
Alternative Thresholds: Footnote 13 indicates that
simulations were also run with +/− 0.15 daily roll
thresholds, resulting in fewer but more profitable trades.
Here’s a pseudocode representation of this strategy:
--- PAGE 96 ---
# Define the trading strategy based on VIX futures
basis and daily roll
Define Trading_Strategy(VIX_spot_price,
front_VIX_futures_price, days_until_settlement,
daily_roll_threshold = 0.10):
# Calculate the daily roll
daily_roll = (front_VIX_futures_price -
VIX_spot_price) / days_until_settlement
# Determine the state of the VIX futures basis
if daily_roll > daily_roll_threshold:
basis_state = "contango"
elif daily_roll < -daily_roll_threshold:
basis_state = "backwardation"
else:
return "No trade"
# Determine the trade action based on the basis
state
if basis_state == "contango":
trade_action = "short VIX futures"
elif basis_state == "backwardation":
trade_action = "buy VIX futures"
return trade_action
# Example usage
VIX_spot_price = Current_VIX_Spot_Price() #
Function to get the current VIX spot price
front_VIX_futures_price =
Get_Front_VIX_Futures_Price() # Function to get the
price of the front VIX futures contract
days_until_settlement =
Get_Days_Until_Settlement(front_VIX_futures_contract
) # Function to get the number of business days
until settlement of the front VIX futures contract
trade_action = Trading_Strategy(VIX_spot_price,
front_VIX_futures_price, days_until_settlement)
--- PAGE 97 ---
Getting closer. However, it is still strange that it completely
ignored the explicit requirement (much discussed in the
paper) to hedge the VIX future with E-mini future.
User Prompt
Apparently you have forgotten the specification “hedging
market risk with mini-S&P futures positions”. How would
that enter your strategy specification and pseudocode?
--- PAGE 98 ---
ChatGPT Response
Incorporating the hedging of market risk with mini-S&P
futures into the trading strategy requires adding a
component to the strategy that adjusts the position in
mini-S&P futures based on the market exposure of the VIX
futures position. The idea here is to hedge the market risk
associated with the VIX futures trade by taking an
offsetting position in mini-S&P futures.
Here’s how this could be integrated into the strategy:
Assess Market Exposure: After determining the trade
action for VIX futures (either shorting or buying), assess
the market exposure this position creates. For instance, a
long position in VIX futures could be considered as having
negative market exposure (since VIX often increases when
the market falls), and a short position in VIX futures as
positive market exposure.
Hedge with Mini-S&P Futures: Based on the assessed
market exposure from the VIX futures position, take an
offsetting position in mini-S&P futures. If the VIX futures
position has negative market exposure, a long position in
mini-S&P futures would hedge this risk, and vice versa.
Here is the revised pseudocode with market risk hedging:
--- PAGE 99 ---
# Define the trading strategy with market risk
hedging using mini-S&P futures
Define Trading_Strategy_With_Hedging(VIX_spot_price,
front_VIX_futures_price, days_until_settlement,
S_and_P_position_size, daily_roll_threshold = 0.10):
# Calculate the daily roll
daily_roll = (front_VIX_futures_price -
VIX_spot_price) / days_until_settlement
# Determine the state of the VIX futures basis
if daily_roll > daily_roll_threshold:
basis_state = "contango"
elif daily_roll < -daily_roll_threshold:
basis_state = "backwardation"
else:
return "No trade"
# Determine the trade action based on the basis
state
if basis_state == "contango":
VIX_trade_action = "short VIX futures"
S_and_P_trade_action = "long mini-S&P
futures" # Hedge against positive market exposure
elif basis_state == "backwardation":
VIX_trade_action = "buy VIX futures"
S_and_P_trade_action = "short mini-S&P
futures" # Hedge against negative market exposure
# Adjust mini-S&P futures position size to hedge
market risk
Adjust_Mini_SP_Futures_Position(S_and_P_position_
size, S_and_P_trade_action)
return VIX_trade_action, S_and_P_trade_action
# Example usage
VIX_spot_price = Current_VIX_Spot_Price()
front_VIX_futures_price =
Get_Front_VIX_Futures_Price()
days_until_settlement =
--- PAGE 100 ---
Get_Days_Until_Settlement(front_VIX_futures_contract
)
S_and_P_position_size = Determine_Position_Size() #
Function to determine the size of the mini-S&P
futures position
VIX_trade_action, S_and_P_trade_action =
Trading_Strategy_With_Hedging(VIX_spot_price,
front_VIX_futures_price, days_until_settlement,
S_and_P_position_size)
In this pseudocode, Adjust_Mini_SP_Futures_Position is a
function that adjusts the position in mini-S&P futures
based on the calculated trade action and position size.
This function would take into account the specifics of the
hedge, such as the degree of leverage or the precise sizing
of the mini-S&P position relative to the VIX position, to
effectively balance the market risk.
After basically spoon-feeding information to ChatGPT
(treating it as an inexperienced and mediocre intern), it
finally added the hedge. But wait, whenever there is a hedge,
we need to specify a hedge ratio. Doesn’t ChatGPT know
basic finance?
User Prompt
This is correct. Does the paper specify how we should
determine the hedge ratio between the VIX and ES
futures?
--- PAGE 101 ---
ChatGPT Response
I have thoroughly reviewed the paper “VIX Futures Term
Structure and the Expectations Hypothesis” to find
specific information regarding the determination of the
hedge ratio between VIX and mini-S&P (ES) futures.
However, the sections of the paper I was able to access
did not provide explicit details or formulas for calculating
this hedge ratio.
This mediocre intern is becoming even more annoying. But as
mentors, we shall not lose patience.
User Prompt
See this paragraph starting with “The hedge ratio–the
number of mini-S&P futures contracts to buy or sell per
VIX futures position–—is constructed using the out of
sample parameter estimates from equation 3.” Are you
able to summarize the method of calculating the hedge
ratio and display the pseudocodes?
--- PAGE 102 ---
ChatGPT Response
…, the hedge ratio (HR) is calculated using the following
formula:
where:
is the hedge ratio at time .
and are parameters estimated from equation 3
(not provided in your quote).
is the lagged value of some variable (not
specified in your quote) at time .
is the lagged value of the mini-S&P futures
contract at time .
The value of a one-point VIX futures price change is
$1,000.
The gain or loss for a one percent mini-S&P futures
price change is calculated as 0.01 times the lagged
value of the mini-S&P futures contract times $50,
which is the value of one mini-S&P futures point.
The average hedge ratio is roughly one mini-S&P futures
contract per VIX futures contract, with a range from 1/2
to 2 contracts, influenced mainly by fluctuations in the
number of business days to settlement of the relevant VIX
futures contracts and the level of S&P futures prices.
Here is the pseudocode for this hedge ratio calculation:
--- PAGE 103 ---
# Define a function to calculate the hedge ratio
Define Calculate_Hedge_Ratio(beta1, beta2,
TTS_lagged, ES_lagged):
# Calculate the value of a one-point VIX futures
price change
VIX_price_change_value = 1000
# Calculate the gain or loss for a one percent
mini-S&P futures price change
mini_SP_price_change_gain_loss = 0.01 *
ES_lagged * 50
# Calculate the hedge ratio
HR = (beta1 * VIX_price_change_value + beta2 *
TTS_lagged * VIX_price_change_value) /
mini_SP_price_change_gain_loss
return HR
# Example usage
beta1 = Parameter_Estimate1 # Estimated from
equation 3
beta2 = Parameter_Estimate2 # Estimated from
equation 3
TTS_lagged = Lagged_Value_TTS # Lagged value of the
TTS variable
ES_lagged = Lagged_Value_ES # Lagged value of the
mini-S&P futures contract
hedge_ratio = Calculate_Hedge_Ratio(beta1, beta2,
TTS_lagged, ES_lagged)
In this pseudocode, Parameter_Estimate1 and
Parameter_Estimate2 represent the out of sample
parameter estimates and from equation 3.
Lagged_Value_TTS and Lagged_Value_ES are the lagged
values of the TTS variable and the mini-S&P futures
contract, respectively. The function Calculate_Hedge_Ratio
--- PAGE 104 ---
computes the hedge ratio based on these inputs and the
formula provided.
Apparently, ChatGPT couldn’t remember the entire paper,
hence it doesn’t know what and are, nor does it know
what is. To avoid prolonging the agony, let’s just
quote what the paper said.
“The hedge ratios are constructed from regressions of VIX
futures price changes on a constant and on contemporaneous
percentage changes of the front mini-S&P 500 futures
contract both alone and multiplied by the number of days that
the VIX futures contract is from settlement, as shown below.
(3)’’
That’s the mysterious equation 3 that ChatGPT can’t
remember. Let’s leave that aside and move on to a bigger
issue: what about the exit rule? The paper specified that
“These simulations also assume that trades are exited at the
end of 5 business days….”
Let’s see if ChatGPT spotted that!
User Prompt
In the trading strategy specification Define
Trading_Strategy_With_Hedging(VIX_spot_price,
front_VIX_futures_price, days_until_settlement,
S_and_P_position_size, daily_roll_threshold = 0.10), it
appears that you only specified when we should enter a
trade. What is the exit rule?
--- PAGE 105 ---
ChatGPT Response
The exit rule for the trading strategy involving VIX futures
and hedging with mini-S&P futures, as described in your
earlier quote from the paper, isn’t explicitly detailed in the
information provided…
User Prompt
That isn’t true! See the paragraph that contains the
sentence, “These simulations also assume that trades are
exited at the end of ….”
--- PAGE 106 ---
ChatGPT Response
…
# Define the trading strategy with market risk
hedging and a ixed duration exit rule
Define
Trading_Strategy_With_Hedging_And_Fixed_Duration_Exi
t(VIX_spot_price, front_VIX_futures_price,
days_until_settlement, S_and_P_position_size,
daily_roll_threshold = 0.10, holding_period = 5):
# Entry rules as before
...
# Exit rule based on a fixed holding period of 5
business days
Define
Fixed_Duration_Exit_Rule(current_holding_days,
holding_period):
if current_holding_days >= holding_period:
return "exit"
else:
return "hold"
# Monitor the holding period and decide whether
to exit
current_holding_days = Count_Holding_Days() #
Function to count the number of business days since
the trade was entered
exit_decision =
Fixed_Duration_Exit_Rule(current_holding_days,
holding_period)
return exit_decision
# Example usage
...
exit_decision =
Trading_Strategy_With_Hedging_And_Fixed_Duration_Exi
t(...)
--- PAGE 107 ---
In this pseudocode:
holding_period is set to 5 business days, as specified in
your sentence. The function Fixed_Duration_Exit_Rule
checks whether the current holding period has reached or
exceeded the specified duration of 5 business days.
Count_Holding_Days is a hypothetical function that counts
the number of business days since the trade was initiated.
ChatGPT finally found the relevant sentence in question! Now
let’s convert to Python codes.
User Prompt
Good. Now convert the pseudocodes to a complete Python
program to backtest the complete trading strategy.
--- PAGE 108 ---
ChatGPT Response
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from datetime import timedelta
# Function to simulate getting historical data
(Replace with actual data source)
def get_historical_data():
# Dummy data for illustration
data = pd.DataFrame({
'date': pd.date_range(start='2020-01-01',
periods=100, freq='B'),
'VIX_spot': np.random.uniform(20, 30, 100),
'VIX_futures': np.random.uniform(20, 30,
100),
'ES_futures': np.random.uniform(3000, 4000,
100)
})
return data
# Function to calculate the daily roll
def calculate_daily_roll(VIX_futures, VIX_spot,
days_until_settlement):
return (VIX_futures - VIX_spot) /
days_until_settlement
# Trading strategy implementation
def trading_strategy(data,
daily_roll_threshold=0.10, holding_period=5):
positions = []
entry_days_remaining = None
for index, row in data.iterrows():
if entry_days_remaining is None:
# Entry logic
daily_roll =
calculate_daily_roll(row['VIX_futures'],
row['VIX_spot'], days_until_settlement=10)
if abs(daily_roll) >
--- PAGE 109 ---
daily_roll_threshold:
position = 'short' if daily_roll > 0
else 'long'
entry_days_remaining =
holding_period
else:
# Holding the position
entry_days_remaining -= 1
if entry_days_remaining <= 0:
# Exit logic after holding period
positions.append(position)
position = None
entry_days_remaining = None
return positions
# Main function to run the backtest
def backtest_strategy():
data = get_historical_data()
positions = trading_strategy(data)
print("Trade positions:", positions)
# Run the backtest
backtest_strategy()
This script includes:
A dummy function get_historical_data to simulate
historical data. You should replace this with actual data
retrieval from a reliable source. Functions
calculate_daily_roll and trading_strategy implement the
entry and exit logic based on the daily roll and the fixed
holding period. The backtest_strategy function runs the
backtest and prints the trade positions. Please note:
This script is highly simplified and doesn’t include real
data sources, transaction costs, slippage, risk
management features, or performance metrics.
The hedge ratio and hedging with mini-S&P futures are
not included in this script. You would need to integrate
--- PAGE 110 ---
this based on the specific hedge ratio formula and market
data. For a realistic backtesting environment, consider
using a backtesting framework like backtrader or zipline.
This script is a starting point, and you would need to
expand and refine it for more comprehensive and realistic
backtesting.
Strangely, ChatGPT didn’t translate the complete
pseudocodes it generated earlier into the corresponding
Python. This is quite inexcusable.
User Prompt
Why don’t you include the hedging positions with E-mini
futures, since you already have the pseudocodes for
Define Calculate_Hedge_Ratio? Add that into the Python
codes.
It responded by adding the calculate_hedge_ratio function
definition and so forth. The final code is correct, and we
saved it in VX_ES.py on our GitHub.
Overall, we find that ChatGPT is an exceptionally poor reader
and content summarizer when technical details are involved.
It cannot remember many details from a typical finance paper
of about 40 pages. Even when presented with specific quotes
from the paper, it took a great deal of human intelligence,
expertise, and prompting to get it to generate pseudo
backtest codes from a paper. This is far from the AGI
paradise (or dystopia) that we were promised. Count us as
unimpressed.
--- PAGE 111 ---
2.3 Searching for a Portfolio
Optimization Algorithm Based on
Machine Learning
Enough about spoon-feeding ChatGPT specific strategies that
we want to backtest. How about if we use it to find these
algorithms? One of us has developed a machine-learning-
based portfolio optimization method called CPO (Chan et al.,
2023). The CPO method uses a large number of input
features spanning different markets, including fundamental,
macro-economic factors, technical, and even microstructure
data. A machine learning algorithm is then trained on these
data in addition to many historical hypothetical capital
allocations, in order to determine which capital allocation will
give the best Sharpe ratio for some forward period at any
time.
However, this isn’t the only way machine learning can be
applied to portfolio optimization. A more “conventional”
approach is to apply deep reinforcement learning (DRL), with
the current portfolio allocation as the current “state,” future
returns as the “reward,” reallocation decisions as “actions”
that lead to the next state. The typical input to DRL are just
returns or prices—we haven’t seen any examples of using
fundamental and other big data input, especially one using
time-series features. So, we ask Copilot for such references.
(We tried ChatGPT first, but it did not provide satisfactory
responses.)
Again, Kıcıman et al. (2023) said that we should warm up and
orient LLMs to a specific domain to get better results.
User Prompt
Pretend you are a quantitative finance and deep learning
expert in the following.
--- PAGE 112 ---
Copilot Response
[Author Note: some babble].
User Prompt
We intend to apply deep reinforcement learning to the
portfolio optimization problem. What types of input have
researchers used for this problem?
--- PAGE 113 ---
Copilot Response
Applying deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to portfolio
optimization is a cutting-edge approach that combines the
complexity of financial markets with advanced AI
techniques. In this context, researchers have used various
types of inputs to inform the DRL models. Here are some
common types of inputs:
1. Price-based Data: This is the most common input
type and includes historical prices, returns, and other
derived statistics like moving averages, volatility
(measured as standard deviation of returns), and
momentum indicators. This data can be at different
frequencies (daily, hourly, minute-level, etc.).
2. Volume Data: Trading volume and its derivatives can
provide insights into market sentiment and liquidity,
which are important factors in portfolio optimization.
3. Fundamental Data: For equities, this might include
company financials like earnings, revenue, debt levels,
P/E ratios, etc. For other asset classes, relevant
fundamental data would be used (e.g., economic
indicators for forex or commodities).
4. Alternative Data: This can range from satellite
imagery for predicting crop yields in commodity
markets to social media sentiment analysis for
gauging market sentiment.
5. Market Indicators: Various market indices, inter-
market spreads, and macroeconomic indicators (like
interest rates, inflation rates, GDP growth rates) can
be important for understanding the broader market
context.
6. Technical Indicators: Indicators like the Relative
Strength Index (RSI), Bollinger Bands, MACD (Moving
--- PAGE 114 ---
Average Convergence Divergence), and others are
often used by traders and can be useful inputs for a
DRL model.
7. Risk Metrics: Measures like Value at Risk (VaR),
Conditional Value at Risk (CVaR), or Sharpe Ratio can
also be inputs to guide the DRL algorithm toward not
just return maximization but also risk-adjusted return
optimization.
8. News and Event Data: Real-time news feeds,
earnings reports, and other event data can have a
significant impact on market dynamics and, hence, on
portfolio performance.
9. Order Book Data: In high-frequency trading
scenarios, order book data (like bid-ask spreads, order
depth, etc.) can be crucial.
10. Macro Signals: Signals from larger economic trends
or geopolitical events can also be factored into more
sophisticated models.
…
That looks encouraging—it mentions a large variety of input,
exactly what we have in mind. So, let’s drill down.
User Prompt
Can you give me references to research that used
fundamental data as input for a DRL solution to portfolio
optimization?
--- PAGE 115 ---
Copilot Response
…
One study, “Deep Reinforcement Learning for Portfolio
Optimization Using Latent Feature State Space (LFSS)
Module,” explores the use of reinforcement learning in a
financial context.. .
…
Another relevant study is titled “A New Deep
Reinforcement Learning Model for Dynamic Portfolio
Optimization.”…
…
We actually know of one specific paper (Cong et al., 2021)
that uses DRL with fundamental features, although it is more
of a stock-selection algorithm than a general portfolio
optimization one. It is still disappointing that ChatGPT didn’t
mention it. Let’s see what these other papers are about.
User Prompt
In the Deep Reinforcement Learning for Portfolio
Optimization Using Latent Feature State Space (LFSS)
Module you cited, what kind of input data was used?
Copilot Response
…
The primary focus was on price and return data, which is
typically derived from Open, High, Low, Close (OHLC)
data.
…
--- PAGE 116 ---
That’s not what we wanted!
User Prompt
In the new deep reinforcement learning model for
dynamic portfolio optimization paper you cited, what kind
of input data was used?
Copilot Response
The paper “A New Deep Reinforcement Learning Model
for Dynamic Portfolio Optimization” did not provide
specific details in the sections I accessed about the exact
types of input data used …
Well, that’s quite disappointing. What’s the use of AI if we
have to read the original paper to find that information?
User Prompt
So, neither of the two papers you cited actually used
fundamental data as input, yet you claimed that
fundamental data is one type of data used for DRL. What
evidence do you have on which to base that claim?
--- PAGE 117 ---
Copilot Response
You are correct in noting that the two papers I cited
earlier did not specifically mention the use of fundamental
data as input in their deep reinforcement learning models
for portfolio optimization. However, the claim that
fundamental data is used in such models is based on
broader trends and practices in the field of quantitative
finance and deep learning.
…
In summary, while the specific papers I cited did not use
fundamental data, it remains an important type of input
for DRL-based portfolio optimization. I appreciate your
diligence and thank you for pointing out the oversight!
For further exploration, you can refer to research papers
that explicitly focus on fundamental data integration in
DRL models for portfolio management.
User Prompt
Yes, so which research papers should I explore that cover
that exact topic?
--- PAGE 118 ---
Copilot Response
Certainly! Here are some research papers that specifically
explore the integration of fundamental data into deep
reinforcement learning (DRL) models for portfolio
optimization:
“Deep Reinforcement Learning for Portfolio Optimization
Using Latent Feature State Space (LFSS) Module”
Abstract: This paper presents a DRL framework for
autonomous portfolio optimization. It includes a Latent
Feature State Space (LFSS) Module for filtering and
feature extraction from financial data. The study confirms
robust results and performance advantages over several
benchmarks.
“Deep Reinforcement Learning in Portfolio Management”
Abstract: This paper implements two state-of-the-art
continuous reinforcement learning algorithms (Deep
Deterministic Policy Gradient and Proximal Policy
Optimization) in portfolio management. While it doesn’t
explicitly focus on fundamental data, it provides insights
into DRL techniques for portfolio optimization.
“A New Deep Reinforcement Learning Model for Dynamic
Portfolio Optimization” Abstract: This model integrates
data processing methods, deep learning, and
reinforcement learning to enhance investor decision-
making. While it doesn’t directly use fundamental data, it
explores dynamic portfolio optimization.
“Deep Reinforcement Learning for Optimizing Finance
Portfolio Management” Abstract: This study examines how
DRL can be adopted to maximize portfolio management in
the financial sector. While it covers various aspects,
including technical indicators, it provides insights into
DRL applications.
--- PAGE 119 ---
…
It is great that Copilot finally cited some papers relevant to
our query, but when we followed up by asking what specific
features these papers used, it wasn’t able to answer. In fact,
you can verify that these papers did not use any fundamental
data or time-series features at all. Once again, count us as
unimpressed.
2.4 Explore Options Term Structure
Arbitrage Strategies
In the ideal world of the famous Black-Scholes options pricing
model that every quant finance student is forced to learn,
volatility is constant, and prices can be described by Gaussian
Brownian Motion (i.e., a random walk of log prices). None of
these assumptions is true in the real world. That is a good
thing for traders—if these assumptions were correct, implied
volatilities would have been constant for any maturity, and so
would these options’ annualized time values. In other words,
the term structure of options prices would be flat, and term
structure arbitrage would have been impossible. By term
structure arbitrage, we meant the possibility of earning
options premium by buying and shorting options of different
maturities without taking directional risk in the underlying.
The simplest term structure arbitrage strategy is calendar
spreads trading where all the options involved have the same
strike price.
Let’s see if ChatGPT can help us construct a term structure
arbitrage strategy. Note that this task is more challenging
than any of the other tasks we have asked ChatGPT to
perform so far. Here we haven’t specified a trading strategy
and are asking ChatGPT to construct one based only on
conceptual hints.
--- PAGE 120 ---
User Prompt
Pretend you are a quantitative finance and especially an
options trading expert in the following.
User Prompt
Please summarize different trading strategies involving
term structure arbitrage in options
--- PAGE 121 ---
ChatGPT Response
Term structure arbitrage in options trading involves
exploiting inefficiencies in the pricing of options across
different expiration dates. This type of arbitrage takes
advantage of discrepancies in the implied volatility curve
or the term structure of interest rates, which can affect
option prices differently depending on their time to
expiration. Here are several strategies that traders might
use to exploit these inefficiencies:
1. Calendar Spreads (Horizontal Spreads)
Description: Involves buying and selling two
options of the same type (either calls or puts) and
strike, but with different expiration dates. The
trader might sell a short-term option and buy a
long-term option, betting on the volatility
difference over time.
Goal: Profit from the difference in time decay or
changes in the volatility term structure.
2. Diagonal Spreads
Description: Similar to calendar spreads but
involves options with different strikes and
expiration dates. It’s a combination of a vertical
and a calendar spread.
Goal: To take advantage of differences in volatility
and time decay between two options.
3. Butterfly Spreads in Time
Description: This strategy involves setting up a
butterfly spread (buying one in-the-money option,
selling two at-the-money options, and buying one
out-of-the-money option) across different
expiration dates.
--- PAGE 122 ---
Goal: To profit from the convergence of the term
structure toward a normal state if it is currently in
an abnormal state.
4. Variance Swaps
Description: Entering into a variance swap
contract allows traders to speculate or hedge
against the future variability of an asset’s price,
which can be related to the differences in the
implied volatility term structure over time.
Goal: To profit from the difference between the
realized variance of an asset’s returns and the
implied variance from the term structure.
5. Interest Rate Options Arbitrage
Description: Utilizing options on interest rate
futures or directly on bonds, traders can exploit
inefficiencies in the term structure of interest
rates.
Goal: To profit from the mispricing of options
based on expected changes in interest rates
affecting different maturities differently.
6. Volatility Surface Arbitrage
Description: This involves analyzing the entire
volatility surface (across both strike prices and
expiration dates) to identify mispricings.
Goal: To exploit discrepancies in implied volatility
for options with different strikes and maturities.
7. Dynamic Hedging Strategies
Description: Involves frequently adjusting the
composition of a portfolio of options with different
expirations to maintain a delta-neutral or gamma-
neutral position.
--- PAGE 123 ---
Goal: To profit from changes in the term structure
of volatility or interest rates while managing risk.
Implementation Considerations
Market Analysis: Requires deep understanding of the
factors influencing option prices, including volatility,
interest rates, and their term structures.
Risk Management: Strategies involve significant
risks, including the potential for loss if the term
structure moves against the position or if the
anticipated arbitrage opportunity does not materialize.
Execution: Efficient execution and low transaction
costs are crucial due to the potentially small margins
of arbitrage opportunities.
These strategies are sophisticated and carry a high level
of risk, requiring a solid understanding of options pricing
models, market dynamics, and rigorous risk management
practices. Traders employ these strategies in markets
where they have identified specific inefficiencies or expect
certain shifts in the term structure of volatility or interest
rates.
It is good that ChatGPT describes a plethora of possible
strategies, the simplest of them uses just calendar spreads.
So, let’s learn more about it.
User Prompt
Elaborate on the calendar spread strategy.
--- PAGE 124 ---
ChatGPT Response
The calendar spread strategy, also known as a time spread
or horizontal spread, is a versatile options trading strategy
that involves simultaneously entering into two options
positions of the same type (either two calls or two puts),
same strike price, but with different expiration dates. The
trader typically sells a short-term option (the front month)
and buys a long-term option (the back month) on the same
underlying asset. This strategy is designed to take
advantage of differences in time decay (theta) and
potentially implied volatility between the two options.
How It Works
Short-Term Option (Sell): By selling a short-term
option, the trader collects premium due to the option’s
higher theta, or time decay, as options lose value
faster as they approach expiration.
Long-Term Option (Buy): By buying a long-term
option, the trader pays for the option which has a
slower rate of time decay. This position benefits from
any increase in implied volatility or favorable
movements in the underlying asset’s price over time.
Objective
The primary goal of a calendar spread is to profit from the
differential in time decay between the short-dated and
longer-dated options. The ideal scenario is for the short-
term option to expire worthless or nearly so, allowing the
trader to keep the premium collected, while still holding
the longer-term option that retains significant time value.
…
--- PAGE 125 ---
This doesn’t sound like a viable strategy at all, since a long-
dated option will typically have a higher time value than a
short-dated one. If we don’t expect any directional movement
of the underlying, then after the short-dated option expires,
we will just be losing (time) value of the long-dated option all
the way to its expiration. Maybe if we keep rolling forward
the short-dated option to the next short-term expiration
period this will work, but ChatGPT didn’t suggest that.
How about the opposite strategy of shorting the long-dated
option and buying the short-dated one? In this case, we have
to keep rolling over (buying) the short-dated long position
forward as a hedge to the long-dated short position.
In either strategy, we need to compare the annualized
premium (price) of the short-dated options with the
annualized premium of shorting the long-dated option,
assuming there is no change in underlying price nor
volatility.
User Prompt
You suggested that we should short a short-term option
and buy a long-term option. Let’s assume this is a put on
the SPX. Can you plot the annualized time values of these
two puts as a function of their time-to-expiration?
ChatGPT Response
… [Author Note: See plot in Figure 2.2.]
--- PAGE 126 ---
Figure 2.2 Incorrect plot of annualized time value of
put options as function of time to expiration.
User Prompt
Can you plot the same for a far out-of-the-money put?
The plot in Figure 2.2 isn’t correct—we compared these
curves with actual option prices we observed from live
market data, and they are wildly off the mark for OTM
options. Let’s explore further.
User Prompt
Please plot the same for implied volatilities this time.
ChatGPT Response
…
--- PAGE 127 ---
Figure 2.3 shows that implied volatility behaves opposite to
options prices! That’s quite counterintuitive—is it
hallucinating? As we have learned, it is better to ask ChatGPT
for codes than the output of some unknown models it uses
internally. To produce code in this case, we need an options
pricing model, but Black-Scholes model won’t do.
Figure 2.3 Incorrect plot of implied volatility of put
options as function of time to expiration.
User Prompt
Do you know of a theoretical option pricing model that
exhibits non-trivial volatility surface with such
characteristics as the “volatility smile” and the fact that
short-dated options have different implied volatility than
long-dated options of the same strike, while short-dated
options have more negative theta than long-dated ones?
--- PAGE 128 ---
ChatGPT Response
Yes, the phenomena you’re describing, including the
volatility smile and the observed patterns in implied
volatility and theta across different expiration dates, are
addressed by several advanced option pricing models that
go beyond the Black-Scholes framework. These models
incorporate features to account for market imperfections
and observed behaviors that the Black-Scholes model,
with its simplifying assumptions (e.g., constant volatility,
log-normal distribution of stock prices), cannot fully
capture. Here are a few theoretical models known for
their ability to reflect a more complex and realistic
volatility surface:
…
2. Stochastic Volatility Models Examples: Heston model,
SABR model. Key Features: In stochastic volatility
models, the volatility of the underlying asset is itself a
random process. These models can capture the
volatility smile because they allow for changes in
volatility over time, independent of the underlying
asset’s price movements. Characteristics: These
models can explain various empirical observations,
including the volatility smile and changes in implied
volatilities across different expiration dates. They also
allow for correlation between the asset price and its
volatility, which can affect the pricing of short-dated
versus long-dated options.
…
ChatGPT listed four types of options pricing model: local
volatility models that use options prices to calibrate the
volatility surface at different expirations and strikes;
stochastic volatility models (such as Heston) that use a few
--- PAGE 129 ---
parameters to produce the general shape of the volatility
surface; jump-diffusion model that allows for jumps in the
price of the underlying in addition to Gaussian Brownian
Motion; and the Levy Process Models that model the
movement of the underlying asset as a Levy process. The
Heston model seems the simplest and most appropriate if we
just want to get a conceptual understanding of the term
structure without getting an exact match with real data.
User Prompt
Let’s pick the Heston model. Can you elaborate on that?
--- PAGE 130 ---
ChatGPT Response
The Heston model is a popular stochastic volatility model
for pricing options, introduced by Steven Heston in 1993.
It addresses some of the limitations of the Black-Scholes
model, particularly its assumption of constant volatility.
The Heston model allows the volatility of the underlying
asset to be stochastic, meaning it can change over time
according to a specific stochastic process. This feature
enables the model to more accurately capture market
phenomena such as the volatility smile.
Key Features of the Heston Model
1. Stochastic Volatility: The model describes the
evolution of the underlying asset’s price and its
variance (volatility squared) using two stochastic
differential equations (SDEs). The first SDE models
the asset price dynamics similarly to Black-Scholes but
incorporates a stochastic volatility term. The second
SDE models the dynamics of the variance itself.
2. Mean Reversion: The variance process in the Heston
model is mean-reverting, meaning it tends to return to
a long-term average level over time. This is consistent
with observed market behavior, where volatility spikes
are usually temporary.
3. Correlation Between Asset Returns and Volatility:
The model allows for a correlation between the asset
returns and volatility changes. This correlation is
crucial for accurately capturing the leverage effect,
where asset prices and their volatility tend to be
inversely related.
--- PAGE 131 ---
Mathematical Formulation
The dynamics of the underlying asset price and its
variance in the Heston model are described by the
following SDEs:
where:
is the asset price at time .
is the variance of the asset price at time .
is the risk-free rate of return. [Author Note: This
isn’t correct! It should be the deterministic (i.e., non-
stochastic) instantaneous drift of asset price returns!
See Gatheral (2006).]
is the rate of mean reversion of the variance.
is the long-term variance mean level.
is the volatility of the volatility (vol of vol), which
determines the volatility of the variance process.
and are two Wiener processes for the asset
price and variance, respectively, with a correlation
coefficient .
Pricing Options with the Heston Model
The Heston model allows for the derivation of a semi-
analytical formula for the price of European-style options.
The option pricing formula involves complex integrations
due to the model’s stochastic nature but can be efficiently
computed using numerical methods such as the fast
Fourier transform (FFT).
--- PAGE 132 ---
Applications and Limitations
Applications: The Heston model is widely used in
financial markets for pricing European options,
capturing the volatility surface more accurately than
the Black-Scholes model, and is also extended to price
American options and exotic options under certain
conditions.
Limitations: Despite its advanced features, the
Heston model can be challenging to calibrate to
market data due to the complexity of its dynamics and
the sensitivity of its parameters. Moreover, like all
models, it makes simplifications and assumptions that
may not hold under all market conditions.
The Heston model’s ability to incorporate stochastic
volatility and mean reversion makes it a powerful tool for
understanding and pricing options in a more realistic
manner, reflecting the dynamic nature of financial
markets.
User Prompt
Please cite any publications that show the term structure
of implied volatility of an option as function of time-to-
expiration.
--- PAGE 133 ---
ChatGPT Response
…
Books and Papers
1. Option Volatility and Pricing by Sheldon
Natenberg - This book is a widely regarded resource
in the field of options trading. Natenberg provides
detailed explanations of the behavior of implied
volatility and its impact on options pricing, including
discussions on the term structure of volatility.
2. Dynamic Hedging by Nassim Nicholas Taleb -
Taleb’s work focuses on the practical aspects of
managing option positions, including insights into the
term structure of volatility and how it can be exploited
through dynamic hedging strategies.
3. The Volatility Surface: A Practitioner’s Guide by
Jim Gatheral - Gatheral provides an in-depth analysis
of the volatility surface, which includes discussions on
the term structure of implied volatility and how it
varies with time to expiration and strike price.
…
We pick Jim Gatheral’s book (Gatheral, 2006) as our
reference as it seems to cover the relevant topic with lots of
charts. Unfortunately, none of which is exactly what we want:
a comparison of the term structure of ATM and OTM option
prices based on the Heston model. We need to instantiate a
Heston model to do that. But first, we need to know what
inputs are reasonable.
--- PAGE 134 ---
User Prompt
What are reasonable estimates for when the asset in
question is the SPX?
ChatGPT Response
The parameter in financial models typically represents
the expected return or drift rate of the underlying asset
over time. For the S&P 500 Index (SPX), reasonable
estimates for should reflect the long-term average
return of the index, accounting for dividends, inflation,
and the overall growth of the economy.
Historical Perspective on for the SPX
The S&P 500 has historically returned about 7% to 10%
annually after adjusting for inflation. This range accounts
for dividends reinvested and represents a long-term
perspective over multiple decades. The exact figure can
vary depending on the specific time period considered,
how dividends are treated, and the inflation adjustment
method.
…
User Prompt
What are reasonable estimates for the rate of mean
reversion of the variance when the asset in question is the
SPX?
--- PAGE 135 ---
ChatGPT Response
The rate of mean reversion in the Heston model is a key
parameter that describes how quickly the variance of the
asset returns reverts to its long-term mean . For the S&P
500 Index (SPX), as with other financial assets, the
specific value of can vary based on market conditions,
the time period analyzed, and the calibration methodology
used. However, empirical studies and market practice
provide some guidance on reasonable estimates for this
parameter.
Reasonable Estimates for
Typical Range: For equity indices like the SPX,
values are often found in the range of 1 to 3 per year.
This range suggests that the variance tends to revert
to its long-term mean within a few months to a year.
…
User Prompt
What are reasonable estimates for long-term variance
mean level for SPX?
--- PAGE 136 ---
ChatGPT Response
The long-term variance mean level in the Heston model
represents the level to which the variance of the asset
returns is expected to revert over time. For the S&P 500
Index (SPX), as with other assets, this parameter is crucial
for modeling the long-term behavior of market volatility.
Estimating involves analyzing historical volatility data
and calibrating the model to current market prices of
options.
Reasonable Estimates for
Given that is the long-term mean of the variance, not
volatility, it’s important to distinguish between the two
when discussing estimates. Variance is the square of
volatility [Author Note: This is wrong. is the volatility
of volatility here, not the volatility], so when practitioners
refer to volatility levels, they’re often discussing [Author
Note: same error as above], whereas pertains to .
Converting Volatility to Variance: To think about
in terms of familiar volatility levels, you first need to
square the annualized volatility. For example, if the
long-term volatility expectation for the SPX is around
20% (or 0.20 in decimal form), the corresponding
variance would be .
Typical Range for SPX: Historically, the annualized
volatility of the SPX has fluctuated, but a range of 15%
to 30% (0.15 to 0.30 in decimal form) is common for
estimating long-term volatility, depending on the time
period and market conditions. Squaring these values
gives a variance range of approximately 0.0225 to
0.09 for .
--- PAGE 137 ---
User Prompt
What are reasonable estimates for for SPX?
ChatGPT Response
In the context of the Heston model, represents the
volatility of volatility (vol of vol), which quantifies the
variability in the implied volatility of the underlying asset.
This parameter is crucial for capturing the dynamics of
the volatility surface, including the curvature and behavior
of the implied volatility skew. For the S&P 500 Index
(SPX), reasonable estimates for can vary based on
historical market conditions, the calibration period, and
the specific model calibration approach. [Author Note: In
this description, it got right the parameters , which as
described stands for the volatility of volatility.]
Reasonable Estimates for
Typical Range: For the SPX, reasonable estimates for
(volatility of volatility) often fall within the range of
0.1 to 0.4 per annum. This range reflects the observed
variability in the market’s implied volatility but can
vary depending on the specific market environment
and historical period analyzed.
…
User Prompt
What are reasonable estimates for correlation coefficient
for SPX?
--- PAGE 138 ---
ChatGPT Response
The correlation coefficient in the context of the Heston
model represents the correlation between the asset’s
returns and its volatility. For the S&P 500 Index (SPX), as
well as other assets, this correlation tends to be negative,
reflecting the common market observation that asset
prices often move inversely to their volatility. This
phenomenon is sometimes referred to as the “leverage
effect,” where market downturns are typically associated
with increases in volatility.
Reasonable Estimates for - Typical Range: For the
SPX, reasonable estimates for the correlation coefficient
often fall within the range of (-0.5) to (-0.8). This range is
consistent with empirical studies that have examined the
relationship between stock returns and volatility.
We will generally pick the middle value of a given range of
just provided estimates, except that we use the low end of the
estimate of (long-term variance of SPX) as volatility level
has dropped over the years, but a high-end estimate of
(volatility of volatility of SPX) as that has increased over the
years (see Chan (2013), Figure 5.10). We also pick the high-
end estimate of (long-term return of SPX) because it has
trended higher in recent years.
User Prompt
Let’s assume , , , , ,
initial variance . Display the Matlab code for
computing the ATM option price using its Financial
Toolbox.
--- PAGE 139 ---
ChatGPT Response
To compute the price of an At-The-Money (ATM) option on
the SPX using the Heston model in MATLAB, you would
typically use functions provided by MATLAB’s Financial
Toolbox. The Heston model parameters you’ve specified
are:
Rate of mean reversion,
Long-term variance mean level,
Volatility of volatility,
Correlation coefficient,
Expected return or drift rate,
Initial variance,
Here’s a conceptual MATLAB script to calculate the price
of an ATM option using the Heston model. Note that
MATLAB’s Financial Toolbox may require specific
functions for option pricing, such as optByHestonNI (using
numerical integration) to compute European option prices.
--- PAGE 140 ---
% Heston model parameters
kappa = 2;
theta = 0.15^2;
sigma = 0.4;
rho = -0.65;
v0 = 0.15^2;
r = 0.1; % Risk-free rate, assuming it's the same as
mu for simplicity [Author Note: this is wrong! r
should be 0.03.]
% Define the asset path
S0 = 100; % Example initial SPX level, adjust as
needed [Author Note: should be about 5,000 as of
February, 2024.]
K = S0; % ATM option
T = 1; % Time to maturity in years
% Define option type
OptType = {'call', 'put'}; % Choose as needed
% Pricing the option using Heston model
for i = 1:length(OptType)
price = optByHestonNI(kappa, theta, sigma, rho,
v0, r, T, S0, K, 'OptSpec', OptType{i});
fprintf('%s option price using Heston model:
%f\n', OptType{i}, price);
end
This script uses the optByHestonNI function to calculate
option prices based on the Heston model parameters. The
OptSpec option allows you to specify the type of option
(‘call’ or ‘put’). Adjust S0, K, and T as needed to reflect the
current price of the SPX, the strike price for the ATM
option, and the desired time to maturity, respectively.
Please ensure you have the Financial Toolbox installed
and consult the MATLAB documentation for the latest
functions and syntax, as function names and parameters
--- PAGE 141 ---
can change between releases. This example assumes a
simplified scenario for illustrative purposes.
We don’t completely trust the codes generated, but we are
glad that ChatGPT pointed to the Matlab Financial
Instruments Toolbox (though not the Financial Toolbox that it
suggested) function optByHestonNI. We will reference the
official documentation at
https://www.mathworks.com/help/fininst/optbyhestonni.html?
s_tid=doc_ta#d126e204312 to clean up this script. Our final
version is saved in GitHub as HestonModelPutPlot.m. The
plot is displayed in Figure 2.4. The one for calls is saved in
HestonModelCallPlot.m and displayed in Figure 2.5.
--- PAGE 142 ---
Figure 2.4 Annualized put option prices as function of
time to expiration based on the Heston model.
--- PAGE 143 ---
Figure 2.5 Annualized call option prices as function of
time to expiration based on the Heston model.
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT for an equivalent Python version.
* * *
Based on these curves, it seems that we can short a long-
dated OTM option and hedge that by buying a short-dated
OTM option that is continuously being rolled forward before
its expiration, unless it becomes an ATM option at some point
due to SPX level changes. At that point, we should liquidate
the positions because the cost of hedging the long-dated
option will outweigh the annualized time value of that option.
The opposite strategy, buying a long-dated ATM option and
shorting a short-dated option won’t work because when the
short-dated option expires, the long-dated option will most
likely not be ATM anymore and the noted term structure
--- PAGE 144 ---
won’t apply (unless we expect a catalyst in the market that
might produce significant move in the underlying after the
first option expires, such that the long-dated option becomes
at the money). There is a wide range of SPX levels that make
the options OTM, but a narrow range that make them ATM.
What about the implied volatility term structure? Are they the
same or opposite to the annualized option value as ChatGPT
suggested earlier? But wait, recall that in the Heston model,
volatility is stochastic and changes constantly. What does the
implied volatility term structure (also known as the volatility
surface) even mean?
User Prompt
Given that Heston model uses a stochastic volatility model
as the basis, does it even make sense to ask for the
implied volatility of an option since it is stochastic over
time?
--- PAGE 145 ---
ChatGPT Response
Your question touches on a nuanced aspect of option
pricing theory and the interpretation of implied volatility
within the context of stochastic volatility models like the
Heston model.
Implied Volatility in the Black-Scholes Framework In
the Black-Scholes model, implied volatility is a constant
value that, when input into the model, produces an option
price matching the market price. It represents a single,
average measure of expected volatility over the life of the
option. This model assumes volatility is known and
constant, which simplifies the calculation but does not
capture the complexity of real market conditions.
Stochastic Volatility Models Stochastic volatility
models, including the Heston model, recognize that
volatility is not constant but varies over time in a random
manner. These models provide a more realistic framework
for option pricing by incorporating a stochastic process for
volatility.
Implied Volatility within Stochastic Volatility Models
Even though the Heston model and other stochastic
volatility models use a dynamic view of volatility,
practitioners still compute implied volatilities from these
models for several reasons:
1. Market Benchmark: Implied volatility serves as a
standardized benchmark, allowing traders and
analysts to compare option prices across different
strikes and maturities in a consistent way, even within
the context of models that recognize volatility’s
dynamic nature.
2. Model Calibration: Implied volatility is used to
calibrate stochastic volatility models to market data.
--- PAGE 146 ---
By adjusting model parameters to match the observed
market implied volatilities across a range of strikes
and maturities, practitioners ensure that the model
reflects current market conditions as closely as
possible.
3. Volatility Surface: The concept of implied volatility is
central to constructing the volatility surface, which
plots implied volatilities across different strikes and
maturities. Even in the context of stochastic volatility
models, the volatility surface provides valuable
insights into market expectations and sentiment.
4. Communication Tool: Despite its limitations, implied
volatility remains a useful tool for communicating
market conditions and risk perceptions among traders,
analysts, and other market participants.
Conclusion While it might seem counterintuitive to
discuss implied volatility in the context of a model that
inherently acknowledges volatility’s stochastic nature,
doing so allows for the practical application of these
models in real-world trading and risk management.
Implied volatility, derived from market prices of options,
bridges the gap between theoretical models and market
practice, serving as a common language for market
participants and a tool for model calibration.
Unlike what academic theoreticians often do, we will not
bother with plotting the volatility surface. It isn’t empirically
observable, and we can’t make money from it directly. As
traders, we prefer things that we can actually trade.
2.5 Conclusion
We asked ChatGPT to create the backtest codes for a long-
short equity trading strategy using the Fama-French factors,
--- PAGE 147 ---
and a hedged VIX futures carry strategy. We also asked
ChatGPT to suggest an options calendar spread strategy and
explore the term structure of options prices. Less
demandingly, we asked Copilot to find out if someone has
published a deep reinforcement learning technique for
portfolio optimization. From these experiments, we conclude
the following:
1. We can’t really use ChatGPT to automate the entire
process. What is needed is a combination of human
intelligence, knowledge, experience and the LLM’s
suggestions. The situation is quite analogous to self-
driving cars. Fully autonomous vehicles are rarely found
except in a few experimental urban areas, but assisted
driving technology has been embedded in almost all new
cars for years already (Chan, 2022). We are pretty far
from AGI (artificial general intelligence).
2. The responses from ChatGPT are often not reproducible:
the same prompt can result in different responses. This is
difficult for most engineering projects that require strict
reproducibility.
3. It may be more efficient to use ChatGPT as a coach to
speed up your own coding tasks than to ask it to write
good codes every time you need one.
These conclusions are not dissimilar to those of Simon
Willison (Django and Datasette creator) as reported in
Claburn (2024). We need a “human in the loop” for the most
serious applications of AI.
That is not to say that there aren’t occasional flashes of
brilliance or evidence of conceptual understanding of
quantitative finance, such as when ChatGPT understands that
a trading strategy that holds a position for N days may have
up to N positions on any single day, or whether subtracting
the risk-free rate from the gross returns is always necessary
when computing the Sharpe ratio. These “sparks of AGI” are
--- PAGE 148 ---
well-documented in the paper by Bubeck et al. (2023). But
such brilliance vanished when we asked ChatGPT to analyze
the VIX paper and produce pseudocodes for the carefully
described trading strategy contained therein. Even after
pointing ChatGPT to the specific paragraph with the relevant
information, it failed to capture the entire trading strategy.
Perhaps it is just a limitation of how long a paper GPT-4o can
handle at this time, but we can only say that the state-of-the-
art available to a professional trader is simply not adequate
as of this writing. As our effort to locate a paper on applying
deep reinforcement learning to portfolio optimization shows,
Copilot isn’t very good at locating information that meet our
specific professional needs. We can perhaps improve that
ability by fine-tuning it on a quantitative finance database, or
with particularly expert prompt engineering. For example, it
has been known that “chain-of-thought prompting,” i.e.,
“asking language models to generate step-by-step solutions
enabled the models to solve problems that had previously
seemed beyond their reach” (Brukbaker, 2024). But if such
highly technical human skills are required of the user, it can
hardly be called AGI. Of course, with each new generation of
GPT (we are using GPT-4o as of this writing), its capability
will improve. What ChatGPT and other Gen AI tools are good
at is providing a first draft of something that may be partially
correct. As such it is useful as a junior collaborator,
motivating the senior human collaborator to try new things.
Often, the first draft is the most difficult (a.k.a., writer’s
block). Revisions and improvements are easier for humans.
So, if you ask us: “After writing these two chapters, would
you still use Gen AI to help with investment strategies
discovery and backtest?” The answer is yes.
You may wonder, given the state of Gen AI, why we should
dive deeper into Gen AI later on. The reason is this: most of
the tasks we have given Gen AI so far are those that have a
clear answer, and human experts can perform them equally
well if not better. Of course, not all of us are experts in every
--- PAGE 149 ---
subject, and it saves us time to get AI to do what we know
how to do if it can do it well. That was the reason we explored
no-code AI. However, there are tasks where there are no
clear answers, and even human experts may disagree on
what the best answers are. In medical diagnostics, we may
ask, “Given the symptoms, what is the likely disease affecting
the patient?” In asset management, “Will NVDA increase its
earnings next quarter?”, “Will oil price go down next
month?”, or “Is what the Fed chair just said in the press
conference positive or negative for the S&P 500?” (The Gen
AI answer to the last question is actually an example later in
this book.) These are all questions with no clear answers,
except in hindsight. This is the realm of discretionary or
fundamental trading. Because machines and humans are on
more equal footing for these questions, we may find that Gen
AI can add more value. We want to find out if building a
“George Soros on a chip” is possible.
The following chapter will set the stage for this ambitious
project. This will inevitably involve usage of Generative AI
APIs.
* * *
2.6 Exercises
1. Ask ChatGPT to create the backtest code for the paper
Zhang et al. (2019) on Deep Reinforcement Learning for
Trading. Does ChatGPT use Tensorflow? Can you create
unit tests to see if it produces the codes correctly?
2. What is Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), and how
would it correct some of the hallucinations the LLMs
produce?
3. Ask the latest version of ChatGPT to see if it can now
summarize the VIX strategy from the cited paper
correctly.
--- PAGE 150 ---
4. As ChatGPT to create the code to compute the expected
profit of an iron condor for SPX options with a holding
period of a month, assuming normal distribution of
returns and reasonable volatility estimates. Watch how it
does numerical integration with aplomb! Bonus question:
ask it to generate the code to compute its Sharpe ratio
too.
Appendix 2A.1 Computing Next-day’s
Return
Here is the Python program that computes the next-day (or in
general, next-N-day) returns. These returns will be used as
“labels” (or the Y variable) for the Fama-French regression
model.
--- PAGE 151 ---
import pandas as pd
def calculate_N_day_ahead_returns(file_path,
output_file_path, N=1):
try:
# Load the data
stock_prices = pd.read_csv(file_path)
# Rename column names
stock_prices=stock_prices.rename(columns=
{'tday':'Date', 'syms':'Stock_ID', 'mid': 'Price'})
# Convert the 'Date' column from integer
YYYYMMDD format to datetime format
stock_prices['Date'] =
pd.to_datetime(stock_prices['Date'], format='%Y%m%d')
# Sort the data by 'Stock_ID' and 'Date'
stock_prices.sort_values(by=['Stock_ID',
'Date'], inplace=True)
# Shift the prices by -N days to align with the
price N days ahead
stock_prices['Price_in_N_days'] =
stock_prices.groupby('Stock_ID')['Price'].shift(-N)
# Calculate the N-day returns
stock_prices[str(N)+'_Day_Returns'] =
(stock_prices['Price_in_N_days'] -
stock_prices['Price']) / stock_prices['Price']
# Dropping the column used for calculation
stock_prices.drop(columns=['Price_in_N_days'],
inplace=True)
# Save the results to a new CSV file
stock_prices.to_csv(output_file_path,
index=False)
return "Successfully computed 30-day returns
and saved to " + output_file_path
--- PAGE 152 ---
except Exception as e:
return f"An error occurred: {e}"
# Example usage
file_path = 'CRSP_mid.csv' # Replace with the actual
file path
output_file_path = 'CRSP_nextDayReturns.csv' # Replace
with the desired output file path
result = calculate_N_day_returns(file_path,
output_file_path)
print(result)
Appendix 2A.2 Uploading the Fama-
French Factors
The Fama-French factors file was downloaded from
https://mba.tuck.dartmouth.edu/pages/faculty/ken.french/da
ta_library.html. We just need to create a Python Pandas
dataframe to hold the data with proper dates.
--- PAGE 153 ---
import pandas as pd
# Path to the file (replace with your file path)
file_path = 'F-F_Research_Data_Factors_daily.CSV'
# First attempt: Skipping initial rows that might
contain descriptions or headers
ff_data_1 = pd.read_csv(file_path, skiprows=3)
# Assuming successful read, filtering out non-date
entries
ff_data_filtered = ff_data_1[ff_data_1['Unnamed:
0'].apply(lambda x: str(x).isdigit())]
# Rename first column to ‘Date’
ff_data_filtered.rename(columns=
{ff_data_filtered.columns[0]: 'Date'}, inplace=True)
# Change first column to datetime type
ff_data_filtered ['Date'] =
pd.to_datetime(ff_data_filtered['Date'])
# Example query: Finding the SMB factor on a specific
date
smb_factor = ff_data_filtered[ff_data_filtered['Date']
== '20151106']['SMB'].iloc[0]
# This returns the correct numerical value of 0.87
Including a “unit-test” like the last line of this code is
important in any program, but especially for those generated
by ChatGPT.
Now, we need to combine the daily returns data and the
factor data correctly, using the former as the “label” or “Y”
variable in our regression fit and the latter as “features” or
“X” variable. Prompting ChatGPT for that, the response more
or less looks like Appendix 2.3, which follows, with some
human editing.
--- PAGE 154 ---
Appendix 2A.3 Combining Fama-French
Factors with Next-day’s Returns
We have created the dataframe that contained the Fama-
French factors as features for our training data. Now we
need to combine them with the labels, which are the next-
day’s returns, in order to form the complete dataframe for
training and testing a linear regression model.
--- PAGE 155 ---
import pandas as pd
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
# Assuming ff_data_filtered and next_day_returns_data
are your loaded DataFrames
#%% Load and parse daily returns of stocks
next_day_returns_data =
pd.read_csv('CRSP_nextDayReturns.csv')
next_day_returns_data['Date'] =
pd.to_datetime(next_day_returns_data['Date'],
format='%Y-%m-%d')
next_day_returns_data['Date'] =
pd.to_datetime(next_day_returns_data['Date'],
format='%Y%m%d')
#%% Load and parse Fama-French data
file_path = 'F-F_Research_Data_Factors_daily.CSV'
# First attempt: Skipping initial rows that might
contain descriptions or headers
ff_data_1 = pd.read_csv(file_path, skiprows=3)
# Assuming successful read, filtering out non-date
entries
ff_data_filtered = ff_data_1[ff_data_1['Unnamed:
0'].apply(lambda x: str(x).isdigit())]
# Rename first column to ‘Date’
ff_data_filtered.rename(columns=
{ff_data_filtered.columns[0]: 'Date'}, inplace=True)
# Change first column to datetime type
ff_data_filtered ['Date'] =
pd.to_datetime(ff_data_filtered['Date'])
# Example query: Finding the SMB factor on a specific
date
smb_factor = ff_data_filtered[ff_data_filtered['Date']
== '20151106']['SMB'].iloc[0]
# This returns the correct numerical value of 0.87
--- PAGE 156 ---
# Merge the datasets on the 'Date' column
combined_data = pd.merge(ff_data_filtered,
next_day_returns_data, on='Date')
# Unit test
# Function to perform the unit test
def test_factors_on_date(data, date, expected_smb,
expected_hml):
# Extracting the row for the given date
data_on_date = data[data['Date'] == date]
# Checking if the date exists in the data
if data_on_date.empty:
return "Date not found in the data."
# Extracting the SMB and HML values
smb_value = data_on_date['SMB'].iloc[0]
hml_value = data_on_date['HML'].iloc[0]
# Testing the conditions
smb_test = abs(smb_value - expected_smb) < 0.01 #
Approximate check
hml_test = abs(hml_value - expected_hml) < 0.01 #
Approximate check
return {
"SMB Test Passed": smb_test,
"HML Test Passed": hml_test,
"Actual SMB Value": smb_value,
"Actual HML Value": hml_value
}
# Performing the test for 20151106
test_results = test_factors_on_date(combined_data,
'20100423', 0.37, 0.62)
test_results
# Function to perform the unit test for MSFT 1 day
return
def test_msft_return_on_date(data, date,
expected_return):
--- PAGE 157 ---
# Extracting the row for the given date
data_on_date = data[(data['Date'] == date) &
(data['Stock_ID']== 'MSFT') ]
print(data_on_date)
# Checking if the date exists in the data
if data_on_date.empty:
return "Date not found in the data."
# Extracting the MSFT 1 day return value
msft_return_value =
data_on_date['1_Day_Returns'].iloc[0]
# Testing the condition
return_test = abs(msft_return_value -
expected_return) < 0.01 # Approximate check
return {
"MSFT Return Test Passed": return_test,
"Actual MSFT 1 Day Return Value":
msft_return_value
}
test_msft_return_on_date(combined_data, '20100423',
0.00508690122)
{'MSFT Return Test Passed': True,
'Actual MSFT 1 Day Return Value': 0.0035501048894635}
test_msft_return_on_date(combined_data,
'20081021',-0.078)
{'MSFT Return Test Passed': True,
'Actual MSFT 1 Day Return Value': -0.0777468408652821}
It passed all the unit tests.
--- PAGE 158 ---
Chapter 3
Whirlwind Tour of ML in Asset
Management
You may not have realized it, but you have probably been
applying machine learning to asset management for many
years now. Maybe you have used linear regression to find the
beta of a portfolio against a market index? Maybe you have
tried Principal Component Analysis as an alternative to the
Fama-French factor model described in Chapter 2? Though
they may seem retro, these are all examples of machine
learning. On the other hand, you may think that machine
learning in asset management is all about using a robot to
predict stock returns. As we will explain in the section on
supervised learning, that may be the least successful
application of AI in finance.
In this chapter, we will take a whirlwind tour of machine
learning in asset management, ending with how Generative
AI can help beyond the no-code usages we have already
demonstrated in the previous two chapters. (We will leave
the nuances of Deep Learning and Generative AI to the rest
of the book.) This tour will include the following:
Unsupervised learning: clustering with application to
capital allocation via Hierarchical Risk Parity (HRP),
Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Cluster-based
Feature Selection (cMDA), and Hidden Markov Model
(HHM)
Supervised learning: linear and logistic regressions with
regularizations, tree-based models, and neural networks.
Various performance metrics, hyperparameter
optimization and (cross-)validation. Applications to
Corrective AI (CAI) and Conditional Parameter/Portfolio
--- PAGE 159 ---
Optimization (CPO), but emphatically not asset return
predictions
Comments on Recurrent Neural Networks and Deep
Reinforcement Learning
Data and features engineering; features importance
ranking and selection; application of Generative AI to
features engineering
The intention of this chapter is to highlight some of the most
important concepts in machine learning that are relevant to
asset managers but not delve into details in any one of them.
You can find much better books if you want details. For
foundational machine learning concepts, see Murphy (2012)
and Bishop (2006). For machine learning for asset managers,
see López de Prado (2018, 2020). For neural networks, see
Goodfellow et al. (2016).
We will follow this notational convention: is a matrix, is a
vector, is a scalar. In particular, is a feature vector, and
are inferred (predicted) scalar and vector label
respectively, while and are the actual scalar and vector
label respectively. often denotes a data or design matrix
with n rows of samples and m columns of features. (We shall
explain what features, labels, and design matrix mean in the
supervised learning section.)
3.1 Unsupervised Learning
We sometimes expect a machine to do things that we know
how to do, if only with hindsight. Deciding whether to buy or
sell an asset and hold it for one day is one such example,
because with historical data we would immediately know
whether that was a good decision or not. Other times, we
want a machine to do things that we couldn’t even tell if the
solution provided is right or is the best available. Deciding
what stocks should be grouped into clusters for the purpose
--- PAGE 160 ---
of portfolio optimization via Hierarchical Risk Parity (HRP) is
an example. We don’t have historical data showing what the
optimal clusters are, nor an analytical method to prove that a
given cluster is optimal. Finding these clusters, historical or
current, is exactly what we want to apply unsupervised
machine learning to. Similarly, if we want to find out what
the common factors that drive asset returns are based on the
historical returns data alone via Principal Component
Analysis (PCA), we can’t use any observable variables except
the returns themselves. Finally, we may want to use a Hidden
Markov Model (HHM) to model the regime changes in the
financial market when we build probabilistic models of asset
returns. As the adjective Hidden suggests, the discrete
Markov states that we hypothesize aren’t observable, and we
must infer from the “emissions”—such as the returns of a
stock—in order to estimate the parameters of the HMM. All
these tasks fall under the category of unsupervised learning,
which is all about capturing patterns in unlabeled data. We
will discuss each of these unsupervised learning techniques
to illustrate the general concept.
3.1.1 Hierarchical Risk Parity (HRP)
Portfolio optimization, or how much money we should
allocate to each component asset of a portfolio, is an age-old
finance problem. Harry Markowitz earned a Nobel Prize in
Economics for inventing the mean-variance optimization
approach in 1952 (see Section 1.4 on finding the Efficient
Frontier of a portfolio.) However, it is well-known that mean-
variance optimization works only in hindsight—it doesn’t
usually produce an optimal portfolio in the future. That’s
because the mean-variance optimal portfolio is highly
sensitive to the input returns. Ang (2014) illustrated this well
in a section baldly titled “Garbage In, Garbage Out” (p. 95). A
portfolio that is allocated to five developed countries’ equity
indices will change its allocation to the US index from −9% to
--- PAGE 161 ---
41% if we change the estimate of its annual mean return from
10.3% to 13%. If you tell me you can predict the US equity
index to within 2.7% next year, we have a Brooklyn Bridge to
sell you. Hence many asset managers despair (including the
mighty Bridgewater Associates) and adopt a seemingly
simplistic approach instead: just allocate equal “risk” to each
asset, with risk measured simply by the volatility of its
returns. This is called the risk parity allocation method. If
asset A has risk of 20% and asset B has risk of 40%, then we
allocate capital to A:B in the ratio 2:1 (i.e., inversely
proportional to the volatility). This simplistic approach
actually works better in practice than the sophisticated mean-
variance optimization, but there are some issues with this
approach too. Risk parity assumes that all the asset returns
are statistically independent (and thus uncorrelated). If the
two assets are in fact highly correlated (think F vs GM
stocks) and have similar volatility, risk parity will allocate to
them on a 1:1 basis approximately, but together the two
assets contribute to the portfolio times the risk of two
uncorrelated assets. Hierarchical risk parity (López de Prado,
2020) is a method to address that. The basic idea is to cluster
the assets within a portfolio based on their correlations.
Assets that are highly correlated are going into the same
cluster. The outline of the algorithm is this:
1. Apply hierarchical clustering (Hastie et al., 2009) to the
covariance matrix to find clusters of highly correlated
assets. (There are various techniques to decide on the
optimal number of clusters, but that is of secondary
importance. You might regard this number as a
hyperparameter to be optimized, a concept to be
discussed in the supervised learning section.)
2. Apply your favorite portfolio optimization method to the
assets within each cluster to find the intra-cluster
allocations. Since all assets in the cluster are similar, we
can just apply the usual risk parity allocation which will
--- PAGE 162 ---
not overweigh any asset’s risk in this case. (Note that
correlation ~ 1 doesn’t mean asset volatilities are the
same within the cluster.) Call this allocation for
asset in cluster , where .
3. Apply your favorite portfolio optimization method to each
cluster’s return to find the capital allocation across
different clusters. As the correlations between these
clusters are supposed to be very low, the covariance
matrix of the cluster returns is almost diagonal. Hence
mean-variance optimization applied here won’t suffer the
instability and sensitivity to inputs. In fact, if is the
weight given to cluster , with , and and
are the mean and standard deviation of returns of
cluster , then which many readers will
recognize as the allocation based on the Kelly formula
(Chan, 2017).
4. The final allocation to assets in cluster is
. Note that if all the clusters have
similar returns and volatilities, and all the assets within a
cluster have similar volatilities, then ,
where is the size of cluster , and is the number of
clusters. This is, of course, very different from a naive
equal allocation which would give .
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to plot the dendrogram of these five
stocks based on the correlations of their daily returns in the
last 5 years: F, GM, TSLA, BAC, JPM. Stop at a maximum of
three clusters. Does it look like Figure 3.1?
* * *
--- PAGE 163 ---
Figure 3.1 Dendrogram of five stocks based on the
correlations of their daily returns in the last 5 years.
3.1.2 Principal Component Analysis (PCA)
In Chapter 2 we saw how we can use the Fama-French
factors to predict returns of stocks. These factors are
observable: e.g., anybody can compute the SMB factor by
gathering stocks’ returns and market capitalizations. PCA is a
method of finding factors that are “statistical”—wholly
constructed from the stocks’ returns data alone—and use
these factors to analyze or predict these same returns. Hence
it is another example of unsupervised learning. PCA factors
(more precisely, factor exposures or loadings) are created by
either finding the top eigenvectors (ranked by their
eigenvalues) of the covariance matrix of returns, or by
finding the top “right singular vectors” by applying singular
value decomposition (SVD) directly to the data matrix of
--- PAGE 164 ---
returns (e.g., rows of daily returns vectors of various stocks).
For more details, see Chan (2021), Example 7.1. By “top,” we
meant the eigenvectors associated with the largest
eigenvalues, or the right singular vectors associated with the
largest singular values. The cutoff value of what makes the
cut to be top is a detail that you can find discussed in López
de Prado (2018) and can also be considered a
hyperparameter to be optimized when results are used
downstream in an investment process.
In addition to their use as statistical factors that drive asset
returns, PCA or more generally SVD can often be used for
denoising or feature selection in machine learning
applications. Specifically, if we have a set of input features
that can be used in supervised learning (see the next
section), and these features are highly correlated, we can
apply PCA to find the top “orthogonal features” that are
uncorrelated and significant. Significant means that these
features are top-ranked in statistical importance relative to
all the other features (which doesn’t necessarily mean they
are statistically significant in the absolute sense.) For more
details, read López de Prado (2018). In Chapter 6, we will
discuss additional unsupervised learning approaches, such as
probabilistic principal component analysis (PPCA), which is
the probabilistic version of PCA, as well as Factor Analysis
(FA), which can be seen as an extension of PPCA.
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to generate two random series with
100 samples each, and with covariance matrix .
Create a scatter plot, and superimpose the eigenvectors
based on PCA on it. Does it look like Figure 3.2?
* * *
--- PAGE 165 ---
Figure 3.2 Principal components of two correlated
series.
Speaking of features selection and importance ranking, there
is another way unsupervised learning can help to be
described next.
3.1.3 Cluster-based Feature Selection (cMDA)
As we will discuss in the context of supervised learning,
feature importance ranking and selection is a method to
regularize a machine learning process so that it doesn’t learn
from statistically insignificant and noisy input features.
Feature importance ranking also improves interpretability of
a machine learning model, as a human user can more readily
understand how the model derives its predictive power with a
small number of important features instead of a large number
of possibly irrelevant inputs. Whether a feature is significant
--- PAGE 166 ---
(important) of course depends on the label (target variable)
during the training phase in supervised learning. We will
detail a few feature selection methods when we come to
supervised learning, but there is a common problem with
many of those methods. If many of the features are correlated
or in general highly statistically dependent with each other,
these feature selection methods often randomly select one
but not the others as the important feature. Two highly
similar features may receive two very different importance
ranks. That is arbitrary and not conducive to interpretability,
as a cluster of similar features often tells a better story than
an individual feature. López de Prado (2020) described a
cluster-based feature selection method to address this issue.
In Man and Chan (2021b), we applied hierarchical clustering
to find these clusters and presented evidence that applying
features importance ranking and selection based on clusters
instead of individual features yield better predictive outcomes
and better interpretability. From that paper, we clustered
some features that are used for predicting the returns of SPX
and found two big clusters that can be readily interpreted as
fundamental vs technical features, as shown in Table 3.1.
TABLE 3.1
Results of cluster-based features importance ranking
based on their importance in predicting SPX returns.
Topic Cluster Features
Scores
Fundamental 0.667 d/p, d/y, e/p, b/m, ntis, tbl, lty,
dfy, dfr, infl
Technical 0.333 d/e, svar, ltr, tms
--- PAGE 167 ---
3.1.4 Hidden Markov Model (HHM)
Hidden Markov Model is a popular technique (Chan, 2017) of
quantitative investors, because the connection between the
“hidden states” and market regimes is so seductive. Who
wouldn’t want to model the transitions between market
regimes as transitions on a Markov chain? The problem is
that if the market regimes are observable and well-defined,
we wouldn’t need a hidden Markov model. For example, you
can define the start of a “bear” market regime as when the
price drops 20% or more below the high watermark, and the
end of this bear market as when the price rises 20% or more
above the low watermark since the beginning of the bear
market. (The end of a bear market is the beginning a bull
market, and vice versa.) However, predicting these regimes
would be a supervised learning problem, not a problem for
HMM. If we can’t observe the market regimes, all HMM is
doing is to introduce more parameters into a probabilistic
model of returns where, for example, a simple static mixture
of Gaussians, known as a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM),
doesn’t fit the data well enough. The correspondence with
hidden market regimes is aspirational, or more bluntly,
fictional. Of course, the more parameters you have, the better
the fit for the training set. If two hidden Markov states don’t
fit the observed returns well enough, how about two
hundred? The question is: does the HMM predict the out-of-
sample returns well? Here the evidence is weak. Chan (2017)
found that it fails miserably for SPY, but Catello et al. (2023)
found that it worked on a few stocks for a few time periods.
The jury is still out. In Chapter 6, we will delve deeper into
GMM and provide an illustrative example of market regime
detection.
--- PAGE 168 ---
3.2 Supervised Learning
The bulk of investment applications of machine learning falls
under the category of supervised learning. Predicting stock
returns using technical indicators? Finding the beta of a
portfolio relative to a market index? Predicting whether an
investment decision will be profitable? All these are familiar
examples of supervised learning.
Supervised learning means that we know the truth, at least
historically, and we want to train a machine learning model
with that knowledge so that it can make good inferences
(predictions) on data it hasn’t seen yet. The truth is variously
called label, target, variate, dependent variable, or simply .
To train the machine learning model, we also need features,
a.k.a., predictors, regressors, covariates, factors,
independent variables, or simply . When the label is discrete
(e.g., a stock going up or down), the problem is called
classification. When the label is continuous (e.g., a stock will
have 11.2% return next year), the problem is called
regression.
We wrote as if predicting stock returns is the best use case of
supervised learning. Actually, it is the worst. When we are
learning from historical data to predict something, it is
imperative that what we try to predict won’t change the
target variable’s behavior because the prediction is
successful. For example, predicting the next earthquake
won’t change when it will happen. But when you build a stock
prediction model that is based on learning from past data,
yours won’t be the only such predictive model since the data
is public. Arbitrage activities will cause the returns prediction
to gradually diminish in accuracy—that’s known as alpha
decay in the business. Taking action based on the prediction
has effectively changed the behavior of the variable being
predicted. This effect can be seen as a feedback loop, where
our actions change the system being observed and predicted,
is not considered in the standard formulation of supervised
--- PAGE 169 ---
learning problems but is instead the subject of control
systems or reinforcement learning (RL), which will be
described later in this chapter. There are much more
effective use cases of machine learning in asset management:
Corrective AI (Belov et al., 2023) and Conditional Portfolio
Optimization (Chan et al., 2023). The former applies
classification and the latter applies regression. Both of them
are more effective than directly predicting asset returns
because what they try to predict are not subject to arbitrage.
We will explain why.
Corrective AI (CAI) was called metalabeling by López de
Prado (2018). It means that we treat a conventional
quantitative investment system as an “expert system,” with
investment rules defined by humans based on their
market/mathematical insights and with a small number of
inputs. Then we apply machine learning as a “corrective
layer” using supervised learning to determine the
“probability of profit” (PoP) of each investment decision or
each position over some time period. If the PoP is above a
threshold, we accept the decision/position. If not, we reject
the decision/position and remain “flat” or “risk-free.” The
labels for CAI are profitable (the positive class, with label 1)
vs nonprofitable (the negative class, with label 0). For an
example trading application of CAI, see Belov et al. (2023).
This use of ML prediction isn’t subject to arbitrage because
no one else is supposed to know your expert system’s next
prediction of asset returns. So even if everyone can predict
with high accuracy whether your expert system will be
profitable, they can’t take any action that may change the
outcome.
Conditional Portfolio Optimization (CPO) is the invention of
Predictnow.ai. It uses ML to predict the performances (e.g.,
returns, Sharpe ratio, max drawdown) of a portfolio under
various asset allocations and rank such performances so that
we can pick the best asset allocation with the highest
predicted performance. It is a novel portfolio optimization
--- PAGE 170 ---
method that can use big data as input to adapt to market
regime changes. For a more complete exposition of CPO and
its many successes, see Chan et al. (2023). CPO also isn’t
subject to arbitrage because few investors have the exact
same optimization objective on the same exact portfolio. The
effectiveness of the optimization also doesn’t depend on
accurately predicting individual asset returns, nor does it
depend on even on accurately predicting portfolio returns,
making this method highly fault-tolerant.
There are numerous supervised learning techniques, ranging
from the simple and well known, to the complex and arcane.
Most of these techniques can be applied to both classification
and regression, with small adaptations. Many of these
techniques can be fine-tuned by optimizing their
“hyperparameters.” Some techniques to improve the
performance of a supervised learning system on unseen (out-
of-sample, test) data fall into a category called regularization,
which are a rich and varied set of methods. We will highlight
the various supervised learning techniques as well as
methods of hyperparameter optimization and regularizations
next.
3.2.1 Linear and Logistic Regressions
We trust that anyone who studied finance or statistics have
seen the regression fit , where indicates a dot
(scalar) product of (vector of regression coefficients) and
(features vector) giving the scalar label . This works for
inferring (predicting) one label at a time. To train this model
—i.e., finding the best values of that can make accurate
inferences (predictions)—we need a lot of historical data with
(features, label) pairs of forming the data matrix
(each row represents one sample data with many columns of
different features, augmented with a column of ones to
account for possible constant offset) and the label vector y (a
--- PAGE 171 ---
column vector of the corresponding univariate labels.) is
also called a “design” matrix. We can use ordinary least
square (OLS) fit to give us See Murphy
(2012).
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to generate a hypothetical design
matrix of four samples of three features. Name these features
“Oil 30d return,” “GDP Growth,” and “HML.” All the features
should be normally distributed with mean and STD of 0.5%.
Does the matrix look like Table 3.2?
* * *
TABLE 3.2
Hypothetical design matrix for three features with
four samples.
Sample Oil 30d return GDP Growth HML
0 0.013820 0.007001 0.009894
1 0.016204 0.014338 0.000114
2 0.009750 0.004243 0.004484
3 0.007053 0.005720 0.012271
Another way to optimize the parameters of the linear
regression model is to maximize the log likelihood of the
training data via maximum likelihood estimation (MLE). In
other words, we maximize the joint log likelihood
of obtaining a set of observations by
tweaking the values of given the values of . (Note we use
index as it is the conventional row index for a design
matrix.) It turns out that if we assume that has a Gaussian
distribution, maximizing the log likelihood is the same as
minimizing the mean squared errors (MSE) of the inferred
labels vs the actual labels on the train set (Goodfellow et al.,
--- PAGE 172 ---
2016, section 5.5.1). The solution to that is the same as the
OLS fit.
But in trading, we often just want to predict whether the
asset will go up or down the next day, or whether a trading
strategy will be profitable the next day. In other words, we
have a classification problem, not a regression problem. So,
is often a discrete or even binary variable 0 or 1. In this case,
we don’t just want to predict whether will be 0 or 1, we
want to compute the probability of each. Like linear
regression, we assume is a linear function of the
features . But it isn’t as straightforward here because
can only take on values between 0 and 1, and a linear
function gives values between and . To fix that, we can
feed this linear function through a sigmoid function
first.
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to plot a sigmoid function. Does it
look like Figure 3.3?
* * *
--- PAGE 173 ---
Figure 3.3 Illustration of a sigmoid function.
We now have a quasi-linear parametric probabilistic model of
the binary variable. To find the best based on the
observations we can again apply MLE to this probabilistic
model, but there is no closed-form solution like the OLS fit for
linear regression. A numerical optimization method such as
gradient descent is needed. This gives us a taste of what’s to
come—much of neural network and deep learning training is
based on gradient descent too, though in neural networks,
the regression coefficients are called “weights” instead.
We will discuss that soon. This scheme is called logistic
“regression” despite being a classification problem. The
sigmoid function above is also called a logistic
function.
--- PAGE 174 ---
Once we have trained, we can set a threshold to
decide when we should infer/predict y = 0 or 1 for a given
input . The conventional choice is 0.5. But let’s say you want
your returns prediction to generate a long bias for your
trading model, you can always set the threshold to lower than
0.5. The best threshold is not a problem for machine learning
—it is a trading strategy construction problem. You can
backtest and optimize the best threshold to achieve the
highest CAGR, Sharpe ratio, or the lowest maximum
drawdown etc. In other words, it is a hyperparameter to be
optimized based on financial metrics.
3.2.2 L1 and L2 Regularizations
In theory, linear and logistic regressions look simple to train
(with even a closed form solution for linear regression). But
in practice, if we have a large number of features and we
don’t know whether they are significant or if they are
redundant (i.e., highly correlated, also called multicollinear),
we will find that can be very unstable (sensitive to small
changes in ) and it will have large errors. Furthermore, the
matrix may even be singular and non-invertible and
can’t generate any at all. Also, having too many input
features leads to the problem of overfitting in machine
learning: the fitted model may work very well on the training
data, but generalize very poorly on unseen test data. All these
issues call for procedures called “regularization” or “features
selection.” The former means reducing the complexity of the
model by reducing the “size” of model’s parameters or the
number of parameters in a model, and the latter means
reducing the number of features in particular. Some
regularization techniques might also do automatic feature
selection, as we will see later. In the context of linear or
logistic regressions, two popular regularization and feature
selection techniques are called L1 and L2 regularizations,
--- PAGE 175 ---
which are two different ways to “size” or measure the
model’s complexity.
L1 regularization is just adding a penalty term like
to the log likelihood function to be maximized. (Note we use
index as it is the conventional column index for a design
matrix that enumerates individual features.) You may
recognize as being the L1-norm for a vector .
is an adjustable penalty hyperparameter that you can
optimize in a “validation set.” (More on hyperparameter
optimization and validation sets later.) The point is that this
penalty term will decrease the log likelihood if you have too
many nonzero ’s, and thus will force the training program
to reduce the of some of the insignificant or correlated
features close to zeros, performing an automatic feature
selection.
Similarly, L2 regularization is adding a penalty term like
to the log likelihood function to be maximized. You
may recognize as being the L2-norm for a vector .
This penalty term has similar effect . But is L1 or L2
regularization better? Researchers found that L1
regularization often results in more zero ’s and therefore
the resulting model is more sparse and better regularized. L1
is therefore more of a feature selection than a regularization
technique. Murphy (2012, Figure 13.3) explained this well:
the constraint forms a diamond-shaped ball that
has many vertices where a vanishes, and the contour
surface where the log-likelihood function is a constant and
which we seek to maximize can more easily satisfy the
constraint by touching one of these vertices. We reproduced
the effect in Figure 3.4.
--- PAGE 176 ---
Figure 3.4 Illustration of why L1 regularization can
more easily get us zero weights. The black lines
indicate where the constraints are satisfied (a
diamond for L1, a circle for L2). The red dashed lines
represent the constant likelihood surfaces (contours),
which we try to maximize by moving it downward. The
points where the likelihood surfaces touch the
constraints represent the optimized weights. You can
see that L1 gives but L2 does not. (By Mxwsn—
Own work, CC BY-SA 4.0,
https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?
curid=45672058)
The red dashed line in the figure indicates the constant log
likelihood contour, while the diamond and circle and their
interiors indicate the L1 and L2 constraints, respectively. The
contour will likely intersect the diamond at a vertex with
vanishing (or in Figure 3.4.)
L1 and L2 regularizations are also called Lasso and ridge
regularizations respectively. One can also apply both L1 and
L2 regularizations simultaneously with a penalty term
. This is called Elastic Net
regularization. Ernie finds these names to be terribly hard to
remember and prefers L1, L2, and L1 + L2.
--- PAGE 177 ---
Just as optimizing the parameters of a logistic regression
using gradient descent is a general technique that extends to
optimizing a neural network, L1 and L2 regularizations
during training is also a general technique of regularizing
neural networks. However, for very deep neural networks,
more specific regularization techniques are applied in
practice, as we will see next.
3.2.3 Hyperparameter Optimization, Validation
and Cross-validation
Every machine learning model has parameters and
hyperparameters. In the linear and logistic regression models
above, contains the parameters, and if you applied L1 or L2
regularizations or both, then and are the
hyperparameters. When we discuss later more complex
learning algorithms such as random forest, gradient-boosted
trees, or neural network, you will find a larger set of
hyperparameters. You can even consider the length of the
train set, or even which ML algorithm to apply, as
hyperparameters. Some hyperparameters, such as the
probability threshold (“decision boundary”) for classification,
relate to the financial outcome you want to achieve, and is
not a matter for machine learning to decide. We described
how we could train the parameters in the case of linear and
logistic regression, but that’s assuming we have a fixed set of
hyperparameters. How do we optimize these
hyperparameters? Validation or cross-validation is the
answer. This process is called hyperparameter optimization
(HPO). In validation, we divide the data into three non-
overlapping subsets: the train set, the validation set, and the
test set. Assigning some reasonable starting values for the
hyperparameters (e.g., ), we use the train set to find the
parameters (e.g., ). Then we test how the model performs in
the validation set. The performance metric can be mean
squared error (MSE) in the regression case, or log likelihood
--- PAGE 178 ---
in the classification case, or it can be something more
complicated like F1 score or AUC score that we will discuss
later, or you might even use your financial performance
metrics to pick the best parameters. After performance
evaluation, we can vary the hyperparameters and retrain the
model and repeat the process until the “best” set of
hyperparameters that generates the highest performance on
the validation set is found. “Best” is limited by your patience
and computational resource. There are fancy methods to
more intelligently sample the hyperparameter space (such as
using a Bayesian optimizer), but often a brute-force grid
search is used if we don’t have too many hyperparameters.
For example, if the length of the training set is considered a
hyperparameter, you will just keep increasing the length until
performance on the validation set stops improving. Once the
best set of hyperparameters and the corresponding trained
model is found, it can be tested on the test set to see if all this
effort yields good out-of-sample performance. If not, you are
not supposed to go back to modify the hyperparameters and
try again (e.g., adding features, try different ML algorithms,
try different training sets, …). You should admit defeat and
abandon your project (López de Prado, 2015). However, you
are allowed to change your labels and start a new project.
There is one small issue with taking a chunk of data out to
serve as a validation set: we have reduced the amount of data
that can be used for training, which reduces the ability of
your model to generalize. However, as we will see more
details in Chapter 10, modern techniques allow you to train a
model using small datasets with good generalization by
leveraging pre-trained models. Also, especially for financial
time series, which tends to violate the standard assumption of
independent and identically distributed (IID) observations in
most ML models, who is to say that a specific period should
be used to pick the optimal hyperparameters and not
another? An easy way to remedy that is to apply “cross-
validation”: cut up any data that is not in the test set into K
--- PAGE 179 ---
subsets (called “validation folds”), train model k on the data
not in the k-fold and make inferences on the k-fold. Average
the validation set performance over all k-folds and optimize
hyperparameters based on this performance. This way, we
have used all the data outside of the test set for optimizing
the hyperparameters. (By “averaging performance,” we mean
making inferences/predictions on every sample in the k-folds
and then compute any performance metric you like on those
inferred labels. We do not mean just averaging the Sharpe
ratio or some other nonlinear metrics over different folds.)
There are further issues when cross-validation is applied to
time-series data, such as when the features used for training
model k overlaps in time with the time period of the k-fold,
thus possibly inflating the performance of model k on k-fold
due to look-ahead bias. López de Prado (2018) discussed the
remedies to this problem extensively.
3.2.4 Performance Metrics
For asset managers, the ultimate performance metrics of any
ML system are financial metrics such as Sharpe or Calmar
ratios. But if we want an intermediate performance metrics
just for the machine learning component of an investment
system, there are other standard ones. These can be used for
ML model validation, comparison, or hyperparameter
optimization.
For regression problems, the performance metrics are the
familiar Mean Squared Error (MSE, the closer to zero the
better) and -squared ( , the closer to 1 the better). As a
reminder, measure the proportion of the variance in the
label that can be explained by the features. However, before
we get too excited by a good MSE or , we should perform
some sanity checks. As an illustration, see the Anscombe
quartet
--- PAGE 180 ---
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anscombe%27s_quartet) in
Figure 3.5.
Figure 3.5 The Anscombe quartet. All four data sets
have same means, variances, correlations, regression
coefficients, and
Source: Anscombe /
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Anscombe.svg#/media/File:Ans
combe.svg, last accessed on 13 January 2025 / CC BY 3.0.
These four very different scatter plots of (x, y) turn out to
have the same high of 0.67 and many other descriptive
statistics, but no one would think that linear regression is a
good fit for the second and fourth set of data. Meanwhile the
regression coefficient is biased for the third set due to an
outlier. Visual inspection tells a very different, and more
accurate, story than a numerical statistic such as .
However, when we have a high dimensional data set, it is
--- PAGE 181 ---
very difficult to find these anomalies via visual inspection.
What we can do in those cases is to perform exploratory data
analysis (EDA) to determine if there are any outliers in the
data and if those are due to errors and should be excluded.
Then we can apply features importance ranking to find the
top-ranked features. Even better, we can use cluster-based
MDA (cMDA) (see López de Prado [2020]) to find the top-
ranked clusters of features, and see whether they make
sense. Sometimes, especially important features that have
high predictive powers turn out to embed look-ahead-bias
and should be discarded. We will discuss more about feature
engineering later in this chapter.
For binary classification problems, and the majority of the
probabilistic approaches to machine learning, we have
already seen that the usual metric to optimize is the log
likelihood (LL). This is also the metric to compare the
inference powers of different classifiers (or maybe the same
classifier with different hyperparameters) given labels in the
test set. However, the LL score doesn’t give an intuitive
understanding of how good a classifier is, just as MSE doesn’t
give an intuitive appeal of how good a regression is because
its value depends on the labels’ inherent variance. There are
other classification performance metrics that are often used
instead.
The most common classification metric is accuracy of
prediction: . You might think that any
accuracy over 50% means the model is better than random
and is working. But imagine if the labels are very imbalanced:
90% of them are 0 and only 10% of them are 1. We can just
blindly bet on 0 and get a 90% accuracy rate. We need
additional measures to demonstrate the power of our ML
model. Precision and recall are such measures. Typically,
these are applied to the minority class, or the class with label
1 that we consider the results are “positive.” For example, in
Corrective AI, this would be the case where the investment
--- PAGE 182 ---
decision is profitable. The negative class is the one presumed
to be in the majority with label 0. Precision is
and recall is . The
correct predictions of 1 are called the true positives (TP),
while the incorrect predictions of 1 (also known as Type I
error) are called the false positives (FP). The correct
predictions of 0 are called the true negatives (TN), while the
incorrect predictions of 0 (also known as Type II error) are
called the false negatives (FN). So, you can also write
and . Typically, both recall and
precision should be above 50% to indicate any predictive
power. In our example, if the model were to always bet on 0,
recall will be 0, indicating the model doesn’t work. If the
model were to always bet on 1, precision will be just 10%,
again indicating the model doesn’t work. To take into account
both precision and recall, people often calculate the F1 score
which is the harmonic mean of recall and precision:
. You can see that F1 score is obviously 0 if
either precision or recall is zero. It will also be far smaller
than 0.5 if either precision or recall is far smaller than 0.5. If
we want to drill down to details, we can also compute the
confusion matrix for each of the quadrant (Table 3.3):
TABLE 3.3
The confusion matrix for binary classification.
Predicted Positive Predicted Negative
Actual Positive TP FN
Actual Negative FP TN
We find this mnemonic helpful: Type I errors (FP) are more
serious than Type II errors (FN) in trading because FP may
mean accepting an investment decision that is wrong and we
--- PAGE 183 ---
lose money, while FN means not accepting an investment
decision that turns out to be correct and profitable but we are
keeping our money safe in the bank. Hence FP is given
priority as Type I error. The confusion matrix is also giving
the priority of the first row and column to the positive class.
When we have a multiclass classification problem (e.g.,
return is labeled very negative, mildly negative or 0, mildly
positive, very positive) the precision and recall scores need to
be computed by regarding each class as the positive class in
turn and the other classes grouped together as the negative
class. The F1 score is then computed as some sort of average
over these recall and precision scores. We can’t explain it
better than Copilot:
Copilot Response
Micro-average: This method aggregates the contributions
of all classes to compute the average metric. It calculates
the F1 score globally by counting the total true positives,
false negatives, and false positives.
Macro-average: This method calculates the F1 score for
each class independently and then takes the average. This
treats all classes equally, regardless of their size.
Weighted-average: This method calculates the F1 score
for each class independently but when it averages them, it
uses a weight that depends on the number of true
instances for each class.
A confusion matrix for a three-class classification problem
would look something like Table 3.4.
--- PAGE 184 ---
TABLE 3.4
Confusion matrix for three-class classification.
Predicted Predicted Predicted
Class 1 Class 2 Class 3
Actual TP FN FN
Class1
Actual FN TP FN
Class 2
Actual FN FN TP
Class 3
(Of course, each of the TP and FN will have a different
number in each cell.)
* * *
Exercise: Ask Copilot to generate a random 3 × 3 confusion
matrix and ask it to compute recall and precision for each
class, and compute the three types of F1 scores. Manually
check if these numbers are correct.
* * *
There is one particular hyperparameter that we usually want
to optimize in a binary classification problem: the probability
threshold that decides whether we should infer 0 or 1.
This is also called the “decision boundary” in ML in general.
Which performance metrics should be used for this?
The usual objective function to be optimized, the log
likelihood (LL), does not include as the hyperparameter
as it only requires the probability distribution and the actual
labels as input. If we use precision or recall as the objective,
increasing one by tuning will typically lead to the
decrease of the other. This can be seen from the hypothetical
PR curve in Figure 3.6 (generated by ChatGPT), which plots
--- PAGE 185 ---
the precision against the recall with decreasing toward
the right side.
Figure 3.6 A typical precision-recall curve.
We can also see this from the ROC curve in Figure 3.7, which
plots the True Positive Rate (TPR, a.k.a., recall) against the
False Positive Rate (FPR = FP/#actual negatives = FP/(FP +
TN)) again with decreasing toward to right side. As
decreases, naturally we get more predictions of positives,
some right and some wrong, and thus both TPR and FPR
increase. It is obvious that recall can at most be 1, and FPR
can also be at most 1, both of which happen when we
mislabel all the negatives as positives. A binary classifier that
assigns probabilities randomly with will give a
straight diagonal line as the ROC curve, and the more
discriminating power the classifier has, the more negative its
--- PAGE 186 ---
curvature. This means at any point of the curve except the
endpoints, TPR > FPR. (If a ROC curve has positive
curvature, we just need to infer 0 when and we will
recover the same discriminating power. That is, a false
prophet that is consistently wrong is a true prophet.) This
also means that we can use the area under the ROC curve as
the statistic, which describes the discriminating power of the
classifier. This area is called the AUC (area under curve), and
it should be greater than 0.5 for a good classifier. This
statistic is useful for comparing different classifiers as well,
particularly during the modeling phase, where we want to
evaluate model performance independently of the chosen
probability threshold. There is also a related measure called
AUCH (area under convex hull), which is very similar to AUC
but applies to the convex hull that is fitted to the actual
precision and recall data.
--- PAGE 187 ---
Figure 3.7 A typical ROC (Receiver Operating
Characteristics) curve.
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to generate 1,001 random samples of
or 1 based on the binomial distribution, with the
probability of class 1 determined by a sigmoid function of a
scalar feature that takes on values −500 to 500 increments
of 1. Ask it to fit a logistic regression on this simulated data,
and compute the various performance metrics just described.
Are those metrics computed correctly? Does the model fit the
data well? (Hint: it has to! This is just in-sample fitting.)
* * *
--- PAGE 188 ---
3.2.5 Classification and Regression Trees,
Random Forest, and Boosted Trees
Tree-based models are widely regarded as the most effective
ML technique for tabular, inhomogeneous features (Shwartz-
Ziv and Armon, 2021). Inhomogeneous features mean that
features may have very different statistical characteristics. In
finance, one feature might be annualized GDP growth,
another might be a categorical feature of whether Fed
interest rate announcement was made on the previous day,
and yet another might be the 1-day return of the SPY. In
contrast, neural networks are widely regarded as the most
effective ML technique for homogeneous features such as
image, videos, acoustic (including speech), and textual
features. Homogeneous features are exemplified by words in
a text file: every word is usually drawn from the same
vocabulary. As we shall see, tree-based models typically
select one feature at a time, so the fact that different features
have different statistical properties is of no hindrance. Plain-
vanilla classification and regression trees are also more
explainable/interpretable than neural networks, though the
embellished versions such as gradient-boosted trees or
random forest are less so.
The most popular and basic method of training a tree is
called CART (Breiman et al., 1984). Depending on the
context, sometimes we also call the tree itself a CART. For a
classification problem, the algorithm starts with the entire
train set and goes through the list of features and picks one
that separates the samples into two subsets (“child nodes”)
such that each one contains “mostly” samples of the same
label. To be technical, that means we choose the feature such
that the weighted sum of the Gini indices of the two subsets
is the lowest. If the feature chosen is continuous as opposed
to categorical, then the choice of the feature and the
threshold (denoting cutoff) to divide the feature’s range of
values into two are made at the same time. Repeat this
--- PAGE 189 ---
process recursively with each child node, until a child node’s
number of samples drops to or below the minimum, or when
the depth of the branch reaches a certain maximum. As you
can tell, it is a greedy algorithm, because it always picks the
best feature one at a time, without regard to the possibility
that picking a few suboptimal features consecutively may
ultimately result in a lower Gini index. It is easy to see how
we can infer the label given a new set of features—just follow
the decision rules down to the leaf node and see which class
it belongs to. The probability of ending up in that class
based on feature ,…, picked before the leaf node is
simply
.
(There is no loss of generality to assume the decision rule is
≥ because we can always apply a minus sign to the
continuous features, and the = takes care of the categorical
features.)
For a regression problem, the CART algorithm is very similar,
except that the criterion for choosing a feature is determined
by minimizing the weighted MSE of the child nodes. For
inference, we can just compute the average value of the
labels in the training samples in a leaf node
.
The simplest regularization techniques for trees are to set a
minimum for the number of samples in any of the nodes
and/or set a maximum depth (i.e., the maximum number of
features used) of any branch of a tree. Data scientists have
also found that it is helpful to average the inferences of an
ensemble of K trees where each tree is trained using samples
randomly drawn with replacement from the original train set.
This ensemble is called the Random Forest. For a
classification tree, that means computing the average of the
probability of inferring class and picking the that has the
highest probability given the feature values. For a regression
--- PAGE 190 ---
tree, one can just average the inferred values of the label
across all the trees given the feature values.
Performance of any machine learning model can be boosted
by a technique called, you guessed it, boosting. The most
popular implementation of boosting is called gradient
boosting. It is yet another recursive algorithm. Assume we
already have a boosted model (which is initialized to the
original unboosted model ). It makes an inference
(we use a vector here to indicate many samples of labels). We
compute the errors of these inferences and use these
errors as the new labels to train an error
prediction/correction model . A new ensemble model
is now ready for the next iteration. (We use
this notation to indicate the output of is the output of
minus the output of .) The inference errors (at least on
the train set) of are supposed to decrease with every
iteration. (See https://developers.google.com/machine-
learning/decision-forests/intro-to-gbdt.) We will stop when
the errors become small enough (in the classification case,
the number of positive cases become small enough), or when
the improvement in error rate is not big enough, or when we
exceed the maximum number of iterations. Notice that
although we hook up several models together in a boosted
model/tree, we add these models sequentially and the
parameters of the existing sequential of models are not
modified in subsequent training. As we shall see, this is
similar to neural networks (NN) in that NN also connect
multiple elementary models together, but in a NN the
parameters of the elementary models do change during
training.
One way to regularize a boosted model to reduce overfitting
is to introduce a learning rate such that
. In other words, we don’t trust the full
predicted error to correct the model. The learning rate and
the maximum number of trees n_estimators in the ensemble
--- PAGE 191 ---
are the typical hyperparameters to be optimized. When is
close to 0, n_estimators need to be high to minimize the
errors. We will find the concept of learning rate to be
relevant to neural network training, discussed next.
There are many attempts to improve on the classical CART
algorithm for tree-growing. There are also deep learning
techniques (specifically using attention) applied to trees
(Zhuang et al., 2024; Arik and Pfister, 2020). In financial
applications, Cong et al. (2024) described the Panel Tree
approach for classifying entire stock returns series that result
in superior investment performance. These efforts are made
because of the unique interpretability of CART and its power
on tabular data. There is still ongoing debate about the
predictive power of tree-based models compared to deep
learning for tabular data. An excellent paper showcasing the
performance of tree-based models in this context is by
Grinsztajn et al. (2022), which we recommend to readers for
further details.
3.2.6 Neural Networks
You may notice that the machine learning algorithms we have
described so far, linear or logistic regressions or CART,
always output a scalar label , whether it is continuous-
valued or categorical. (We may write as a vector
sometimes, but only because we stack all the samples
together during training.) They can’t be used to produce a
vector. You can of course build multiple models using the
same input to produce a vector as in multivariate regression,
but those models are trained separately and have
independent parameters. However, sometimes we find that
training a model on labels that are vectors generates better
inferences. For example, in Kolm et al. (2021), the authors
used a neural network to predict the term structure of
returns based on the limit order book. The fact that we know
(as labels, not features) the future returns over several time
--- PAGE 192 ---
frames provides a richer information set to train a better
model. Neural networks is a much more flexible ML
algorithm that can produce such vector outputs. This benefit
may outweigh the drawback we mentioned earlier that tree-
based models work better for tabular and heterogeneous
features—when the labels are vectors, you have no choice but
to use NN.
* * *
Exercise: What are the exact inputs used in the Kolm paper
just cited? How many different time horizons are used for the
labels? What kind of neural network architecture is used? Ask
Copilot to help, or even generate codes based on this paper!
* * *
To motivate NN, we saw earlier how boosted machines
combine multiple elementary models (e.g., each of them a
single tree) sequentially to boost performance. To extend this
concept, why not connect these models both in parallel and
sequentially? Why not take multiple outputs from different
models so that the global output is a vector or even a tensor?
Why not allow all these machines’ parameters to be tunable
during training instead of fixing them sequentially? If we
allow all these possibilities, we end up with a feedforward
neural network, also known as a multilayer perceptron
(MLP), which is the simplest type of NN (Goodfellow et al.,
2016). We show a simple one in Figure 3.8.
--- PAGE 193 ---
Figure 3.8 A one-hidden-layer MLP that takes a vector
of features to classify a scalar, binary label . Every
arrow denotes a linear function (dot product) with
weights (regression coefficients) and biases (offsets).
If this were for regression, we can omit the sigmoid
function at the output node. In general, we can also
predict a vector of binary labels , with different
weights . We can also need more nodes to the
hidden layer, and/or add more hidden layers. To
simplify notation, we have used w and to represent
both the weights and biases.
The simplest MLP has three layers:
1. An input layer that is just a several linear regressors
that each accept the same features and each output a
scalar . We use instead of because this is
typical in NN literature. To simplify notations, we have
also used instead of and to include both weights
and “biases,” which are the constant offsets in linear
regressions. (This means we assumed a “1” to be added
to the input vector This is for notational convenience
because, in practice, for reasons of computational time
and memory complexity, it is more efficient to add the
biases directly rather than appending one to the input,
--- PAGE 194 ---
particularly when the number of regressions becomes
large.) They form the fundamental parameters of a NN.
2. These scalars are each fed into a hidden node.
Here we introduce a nonlinear function that is as close to
a linear model as possible: like the ReLU unit
. The output of each ReLU unit is again a
scalar, , and known as the activation.
3. These scalars together form a vector that is fed into
the output node(s), which is another linear regressor
for a regression problem, or our familiar
sigmoid function for a binary
classification problem. The latter represents the
probability of a class, as in logistic regression. Again, we
have simplified notations to use to represent both
weights and biases, and assumed we added “1” to the
vector .
Since we have used the same symbol to represent both
weights and biases, we will also refer both weights and
biases as just “weights” in the text.
We can extend MLP by adding more hidden layers, where the
outputs of one hidden layer are used as inputs of another
hidden layer. We can also use higher dimensional tensors as
inputs, weights, and outputs. For multiclass classification, we
can replace the sigmoidal function with the softmax function
.
Do not be alarmed by all these matrix multiplications. NN
libraries such as PyTorch or TensorFlow will deal with them
for you, as long as you specify the dimensions of the inputs
and outputs, the number of hidden layers, and the number of
nodes each layer.
--- PAGE 195 ---
There is research to show that a MLP with just one hidden
layer can approximate any reasonable function (Hornik et al.,
1989). But what this research didn’t say is that we will need
exp(# number of features) nodes in this layer to have a good
approximation. People found that it is generally more
efficient to train a network with more hidden layers, each
with few nodes, than a single hidden layer with many nodes.
To train a NN, we need to decide on the objective function.
As in linear and logistic regression and almost every other
ML problem: optimizing the log likelihood is most of the time
the right choice. Assuming a Gaussian probability distribution
for the output layer, this is again equivalent to minimizing the
MSE for a regression problem as mentioned for linear and
logistic regressions. To maximize the log likelihood for
logistic regression, we can again resort to gradient descent of
the parameters, now called weights. The problem with
applying gradient descent to the much larger set of
parameters that are typical of a NN and with a large training
set is the prohibitive computational time. Hence there is a
more effective algorithm called stochastic gradient descent
(SGD) that samples a small subset of the train set when
computing the gradient. This subset is called the minibatch—
at most a few hundred samples. The smaller the size of a
minibatch, the better the network is regularized. Just as in
the boosting algorithm we described above, we will update
the parameters where represent all the
weights of the network, is the gradient, and is the
learning rate. (There are several techniques to accelerate
model training by modifying these equations, as we will see
later.) The computation of can be efficiently performed by a
forward-backward algorithm called backpropagation.
Backpropagation is based on the chain rule of calculus to
recursively compute , which is the first partial derivative of
the negative log likelihood (or in general any cost function
) with respect to a parameter The inferred output node
(together with the actual label ) of a NN can be used to
--- PAGE 196 ---
compute the cost function. Using the chain rule of calculus,
. Note that the sum is over all the
hidden nodes that lead forward to the output node , and
is the output from node . In other words, over all the parent
nodes of . To compute , we can invoke the chain rule
again and express it in terms of all the partial derivatives
with respect to all the outputs from all the parent nodes
that lead forward to the node . And so on and so on until
we reach the node with the parameter . Except for the
output node, all the other partial derivatives are just
simple functions of all the outputs of the parent nodes of as
well as the weights that take the output of parent node and
turn it into an input to the child node . For example, for
hidden node , let’s say
and and ,
then . If and , then . For the
output node, let’s say is the MSE function, and
where s is over all
samples in the minibatch, and and . Let’s
further assume we only have 1 sample in the minibatch and
then
* * *
Exercise: In the previous example, what would be given
two alternate sets of and ? If the minibatch has two
--- PAGE 197 ---
samples, and , and for the second
sample, what would be?
* * *
To start the training (backprop) process, we take samples
from a minibatch of train data, initialize the parameters to
some values (recommendation: initialize weights to small
random values in the range where is the
number of features, and initialize biases to zero) and run
them forward through the network to compute all the outputs
of all the nodes . That is, going layer by layer and link by
link through all the linear and ReLU or sigmoid functions,
through all the matrix multiplications of weights, and then
finally arrive at the output nodes . All the from different
samples are combined with their corresponding actual labels
to produce aggregated over all samples in the
minibatch. This is the forward propagation that produces the
output values of all the nodes. Now we are ready to compute
the gradient using the chain rule described earlier, starting
from output node and going backward, like the numerical
example above. After is computed, we can use it to update
. That finishes one iteration of the SGD, and we
can start again with a different minibatch. We will discuss
later when we should stop iterating. It is often not necessary
to wait till the gradient is 0 to stop, nor should one be
concerned whether we have reached a local or global minima
in the cost function.
In this forward-backward algorithm, no partial derivative is
ever computed more than once, because whenever one is
computed, it is stored for use in another backward
propagating path. For any network with nodes, there can’t
be more than edges and therefore more than
operations to compute the gradients. Most often, the NN
--- PAGE 198 ---
won’t be fully connected and has only edges, resulting in
operations.
If you find training a NN dauting, keep in mind that you won’t
actually need to implement any of these complicated steps—
PyTorch, TensorFlow, etc. make use of automatic
differentiation (also known as autograd) and do it for you.
But it is good to know the high-level principles just so you
know what hyperparameters to try.
To regularize a NN, we have already mentioned the number
of samples in a minibatch is one hyperparameter. The smaller
this is, the more regularized is the network. Another
hyperparameter for regularization is the learning rate
during gradient descent. The smaller is, the more
regularized the network. However, it is found that training
works better if decreases linearly over time. Goodfellow et
al. (2016) suggests that after a few hundred iterations,
should drops to 1% of its initial value and stay there. As an
initial value, one can optimize it over the validation set with
the first 100 iterations and set it just a little higher than the
optimal. Other technique is to use a cyclical learning rate,
where the learning rate varies within a range of values rather
than only decreasing it in a step-wise manner (which, by the
way, is already implemented in PyTorch, see
https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.optim.lr_sch
eduler.CyclicLR.html). More details about this approach can
be found in Smith (2017).
We can also use L1 or L2 regularizations. The cost function J
above can be set to the negative log likelihood plus
or or both. Note that typically we only regularize
the weights but not the biases. As usual, the bigger the ’s,
the more regularized the network. However, as mentioned
previously, these regularization techniques are less
commonly used in practice for deep neural networks.
Yet another popular regularization technique is early
stopping: essentially treating the number of training steps
--- PAGE 199 ---
(one forward-backward iteration) as a hyperparameter to be
optimized on the validation set. Once the cost drops to a
plateau in the validation set as a function of training steps,
we will stop training even if further training will decrease the
cost on the train set further.
Last but not least, there is the powerful technique of dropout
(Srivastava et al., 2014): randomly removing non-output
nodes of a network for each minibatch’s iteration (typically
input nodes are included with probability of 0.8, hidden
nodes are included with probability of 0.5). However,
researchers found the dropout doesn’t work well when the
train data has fewer than 5,000 samples.
While SGD is a canonical training technique, researchers
have tried to improve its convergence rate. There is a method
called momentum that uses an exponential moving average of
the gradients computed over several iterations. This is called
the “velocity” , and the update rule becomes .
Other improvements have been proposed, with names like
RMSProp, Adam, and BFGS. There is also “batch
normalization,” which seeks to keep the mean and variance of
the output of input or hidden units fixed during training by
normalizing them to almost zero and one, respectively. Only
correlations between hidden units and higher order statistics
are allowed to change. Details can be found in Goodfellow et
al. (2016).
* * *
Exercise: Construct a neural net with one hidden layer where
the layer has two hidden nodes for classification. Connect the
output of the first hidden node to both the output node and
the second hidden node. Note that this means it is no longer
a feedforward NN nor a MLP. Label = Is next day return
positive? Features = last 1 day SPY return, last 2 days SPY
returns. With the help of ChatGPT, write a Python program
without using any NN libraries like Tensorflow to train this
--- PAGE 200 ---
network. What is its performance? Can you tune the
hyperparameters to improve validation set?
* * *
3.2.7 Recurrent Neural Network
Let’s say we have a standard time-series prediction problem
in trading: we want to predict the next period’s return using
a technical indicator known in the current period. For
concreteness, let’s say we want to use a MLP (or indeed any
ML system such as CART) to predict the next period’s return
using the market index return , as feature. Each
sample, i.e., each period, has a scalar label and a scalar
feature. We can use the simple MLP in Figure 3.9 to
represent this:
Figure 3.9 A simple MLP for time-series prediction.
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to help train this MLP using SPY daily
returns as the feature, and MSFT daily returns on the next
day as labels. Regularize the MLP and optimize the
hyperparameters on a validation set. How do the Sharpe
ratios look on the train, validation, and test sets?
* * *
indicates the weights connecting the input node to the
hidden node , and indicates those connecting the hidden
node to the output node . However, it may be advantageous
for a ML model to remember what the past features and
labels were when predicting the next label, instead of
treating them as independent samples, especially during
inferences. One simple way to pass information from the
previous features and labels from timestep to is to feed
--- PAGE 201 ---
the output of as input to . We may envision a
network at that looks like Figure 3.10.
Figure 3.10 Tying the weights to the same values and
connecting the hidden nodes to transmit information
from to .
Since the time series is assumed stationary (if not, ML won’t
work), we can force all , , and (the weights connecting
the hidden nodes) to be the same at every During training,
all the features and labels up to would be available and
are used to indirectly determine as they will affect
the values of , , and . Every time we advance a time step
to , the network adds another input node, hidden node, and
output node. Since weights are presumed the same
throughout the network, there is no problem in making a
prediction at . Once we have the actual label , we can
retrain the network and adjust all the weights (if we want to).
We have just motivated one prototypical recurrent neural
network (RNN). Most books display the RNN by rotating our
figure counterclockwise so that time proceeds on the
horizontal axis (as is common in stock price charts) and the
output is at the top, as in Figure 3.11.
--- PAGE 202 ---
Figure 3.11 Same as Figure 3.10, but rotated 90°
counterclockwise so time proceeds from left to right.
Notice the resemblance with a Hidden Markov Model. During
prediction, you can think of the previous inputs from to
as modifying a hidden state that serves as
another input to and affecting the prediction , just
like the hidden state in a HMM that determines the
probability distribution of the emissions . A few key
differences between standard HMMs and RNNs are that
RNNs can model more complex mappings for state evolution
and predictions (from states to observations) using neural
networks. Also, the evolution of the state in RNNs is
deterministic, and not stochastic as it is for HMMs.
There are other prototypical RNN architectures—for
example, we can connect the output to the hidden
node . Designing network architecture is like designing a
building, the architect can let their imagination run free,
subject to training practicalities imposed by the (civil ML)
engineer. To actually train a RNN successfully, though, isn’t a
trivial problem. It is plagued by the “vanishing” and
“exploding” gradient problems (Goodfellow et al., 2016). The
gist of these problems is that in backpropagation using the
chain rule, we have to multiply many gradients together. If
the network is very deep, you are essentially computing
where is the gradient and is the number of layers (depth)
of the network. If , as , i.e., it vanishes. If
--- PAGE 203 ---
, as , i.e., it explodes. In either case, SGD
fails. The solutions to these problems give rise to LSTM,
GRU, the attention mechanism, and transformers. The latter
became the key to building large language models such as
GPT-4. So, we have come full circle. For a practical example
of using LSTM for financial predictions, see Sirignano and
Cont (2018) and Kolm et al. (2021). More details about the
attention mechanism, and transformers models will be given
in Chapter 6.
* * *
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT to use Tensorflow or PyTorch to
create such as RNN and train it on SPY and MSFT as in the
previous exercise. Does your training succeed? If so, how
does the performance look on test set? Is it better than the
previous simple MLP?
Exercise: Ask ChatGPT, “Can you find a paper that describes
financial time-series prediction using LSTM and that comes
with a GitHub?” and try to implement the model.
* * *
3.3 Deep Reinforcement Learning
In unsupervised learning, we don’t have the correct answer
(label) to a problem (such as “What is the best way to cluster
stocks?”). In supervised learning, we have the answer in
hindsight to a problem (such as “What will the return of
MSFT be?”). There is an intermediate situation though: we
don’t know the correct answer, but we know that one answer
is better than another to a problem (such as “What asset
allocation is best among these 100 stocks?”). Reinforcement
learning (RL) is designed to handle this situation. The
prototypical problem is a chess move: you won’t know if a
move is the “best” move possible, but you know a move is bad
if it immediately leads to checkmate! Similarly, the
--- PAGE 204 ---
prototypical problem in finance is portfolio optimization. You
won’t know what the optimal asset allocation to a portfolio of
assets is (though the tangency portfolio from mean-variance
optimization, in hindsight, may come pretty close), but you
know one allocation is better than another if it generates a
better Sharpe ratio in hindsight. Hence reinforcement
learning has been applied to many optimization problems in
finance such as portfolio optimization and optimal executions
(Dixon et al., 2020; Sood et al., 2023). In recent years,
successful reinforcement learning schemes often use deep
neural network to learn the optimal actions automatically,
instead of manually crafting them or updating a table of
actions. This is called Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL).
DRL may seem complicated, but we can implement it in a way
very similar to supervised learning. Recall we train a neural
network via supervised learning by presenting samples
(minibatches) with labels to it, and the labels are used to
compute the (negative) log likelihood of the sample given the
network parameters (weights). The negative log likelihood
can be viewed as a cost function to be minimized via
gradient descent and backpropagation by iteratively
adjusting the network parameters as we present training
samples to the network. In the case of DRL, we don’t have
labels and their log likelihood, but we can still compute the
cost J given the output of a network. For example, in portfolio
optimization, the output of a network can be the asset
weights in a portfolio, and the cost may be the negative
Sharpe ratio for the next 12 months of that portfolio given
such weights. Following Cong et al. (2021), if we are
planning monthly rebalance of a portfolio, we can sample
every month-end in the train set and feed the features
obtainable at as input into a network, with the cost set
equal to the negative Sharpe ratio from to months.
Once the network parameters are trained, it can output the
optimal weights every month going forward, given fresh input
features. Of course, the network can be retrained periodically
--- PAGE 205 ---
with new data as we go forward as well. Cong et al. (2021)
applied this scheme to a stock portfolio and found that it
generates a Sharpe ratio of close to 2 in the test set.
In supervised learning, the outcome of the predictive model is
called the label or target, but in reinforcement learning, the
outcome of the optimizer model is called the “reward.” In
general, the cost is the sum of all the rewards earned over
all the samples. You may have heard there is a difference
between online vs. offline reinforcement learning. Offline RL
is needed when we cannot simulate what reward we would
have earned by a different action, and all we have to train on
are historical actions actually taken and their rewards. (For
example, we wouldn't know if a consumer would actually buy
a product if we were to lower its price when conducting price
optimization RL.) However, in financial applications such as
portfolio optimization, we can definitely simulate what would
have happened if we took a different trading decision, since
the rewards were based on historical prices. Hence almost all
financial RL is online learning.
Note there are other more complicated ways to implement
DRL, with names such as Q-learning or Proximal Policy
Optimization (PPO). These methods deal with the possibility
that sometimes we want to explore less immediately
rewarding action to optimize for long-term rewards (the
“Exploit vs Explore” tradeoff), and sometimes we want to
avoid unstable behaviors during training. In particular, the
function that outputs an action based on the current state
(called the “policy function”) may instead output a probability
distribution of possible actions instead (or more often, the
parameters of the probability distribution). See the excellent
free online course on RL by Hugging Face
(https://huggingface.co/learn/deep-rl-course/) for further
details. Also, in case we gave the impression that RL based
on machine learning can only be implemented via deep
neural network, the paper by Fuhrer et al. (2024) that uses
gradient-boosted trees should correct that.
--- PAGE 206 ---
3.4 Data Engineering
Without data, there is nothing for ML to learn from. Even
with data, there is a considerable amount of expertise needed
to vet them properly. We will highlight some common issues
with financial data here. Most of these issues are pertinent to
training, not inference/prediction.
3.4.1 Unique Company Identifiers
This is mainly a problem for data associated with individual
companies and the data related to them (e.g., prices of their
stocks, bonds, and options, fundamental information on the
company itself, etc.). Different data vendors often use
different identifiers for these companies. Even within one
data file, the identifier for a company may change over time,
and two companies may use the same identifier at different
times. This is especially true if the identifier is just the ticker
symbol. We should use data that has a “securities master”
file: it should have a unique identifier for a security
throughout its history, and cross reference other commonly
used identifiers such as ticker symbols, cusips, etc. for
different periods that various other datasets may use. The
goal is to link all the information related to this security from
different datasets together for the same date, and use that as
features or labels for ML.
A related problem is how we should handle securities that are
highly correlated. By that we don’t mean Exxon vs Chevron
stocks. We mean companies that issue multiclass stocks such
as BF.A and BF.B. They are almost identical in their daily
returns. If one construct features from their returns, we
would get highly redundant features. Of course, redundant
features wouldn’t necessarily be a problem if we use ML
algorithms like CART, or feature selection techniques such as
cMDA. But still, it is good hygiene to eliminate such
--- PAGE 207 ---
duplications to avoid confusion downstream in the investment
process.
3.4.2 Dividend and Split Adjustments
In general, we should treat returns of an asset as features or
label, and not prices. The price level is arbitrary and doesn’t
add much information. It is also nonstationary and price
features at one time cannot in general to be used to predict
labels at another time in the future. You might think that if
there is a stock split, it might be a bullish signal, and a
reverse split is a bearish signal, but you can code such events
as categorical features separately. Similarly, you may think
that a large adjustment of prices due to a large dividend is
bullish. But again, you can use dividend yields as a
standalone feature. There is no need to infer that from the
price level. We have discussed in Chapter 1 already how to
compute returns that take into account such corporate
actions. More discussion can be found in Chan (2021).
3.4.3 Survivorship Bias
Survivorship bias is a data problem that you can’t discover by
examining the data itself. You won’t know what you are
missing. For example, in testing a trading strategy on a
portfolio of stocks with market cap greater than $1B, you
would need a historical database of market cap of all the
stocks that existed at a certain time (called a “Point-in-Time”
database), not just a database of market cap of stocks that
exist now. Similarly, if you want to test this strategy on S&P
500 stocks, you will need a historical database of the S&P
500 index constituents. The consequences of having
survivorship bias in your training data and what data vendors
provide survivorship-bias-free data is discussed in Chan
(2021).
--- PAGE 208 ---
3.4.4 Look-ahead Bias
If someone mis-specified the timestamp of a feature obtained
at time to be which is earlier than , we have a look-
ahead bias if we use it to predict a label at time such that
. Equivalently, if someone mis-specified the timestamp of
a label obtained at time to be which is later than , we
have a look-ahead bias if we use a feature obtained at time
such that . There are subtle ways that look-ahead bias
can creep into data, even those from highly reputable data
vendors. For example, if a company announced earnings at
time , but subsequently revised the earnings to at time
, the data must not contain the entry ( , ), though some
datasets assuredly do. Similarly, if the nonfarm payroll was
announced by the Bureau of Labor Statistics at time , but
subsequently revised to at time , the data must not
contain only the revised entry ( ).
There is another interesting case of look-ahead bias in data.
Some event-driven trading strategies are based on the
earning announcement date (not the announced earning
itself). For example, it may specify that “At the market close
before the earning announcement at time , buy the stock if it
has positive 1-day return.” If you backtest such a strategy
based on the earnings announcements calendar you scrape
from Yahoo Finance or the like, you will probably have
introduced look-ahead bias. The reason is that most
databases only capture the actual announcement date, not
the expected announcement date, whereas the expected date
is what’s needed to backtest an event-driven strategy like the
one we described. Companies often revise their expected
announcement date or time, and it is crucial to capture the
Point-in-Time expected announcement date/time. As far as
we know, such data are only available from Wall Street
Horizon.
--- PAGE 209 ---
One other interesting case of look-ahead bias occurs in
futures price data. But in this case, the fault lies with the
interpretation of the data, not with the data itself. For
example, our favorite futures data vendor CSIdata provides a
futures settlement price as well as the spot price of the
underlying. To be specific, let’s say on 2019-06-06, the 2019
June contract of 6M future has settlement price = 0.05082,
and spot price = 0.05086. Is it correct to conclude that this
future is in backwardation (see Chan, 2013 for the definition)
on that date? No! The futures settlement price is obtained at
15:00 ET at the CME, while the spot price is obtained (by
CSIdata) at 17:00 ET.
Perhaps you think that by using intraday data, we can safely
overcome any look-ahead bias issues with futures or other
price data. That may not be enough. Suppose we want to
backtest a futures calendar spread strategy using 1-minute
OHLC trade bars. That still won’t work because the last trade
of one leg does not usually occur at the same time as the last
trade of the other leg. Backtesting such trade bars in a
calendar spread essentially assumes you know the later trade
price when we execute the earlier trade. To overcome this
problem, we have to use best bid-offer quotes instead of trade
prices to form the minute bar of the spread, since the last
quote of each leg remains valid till the end of that minute bar.
Such subtleties will surely escape your well-paid data
scientist unless they are steeped in financial data science.
Even if the look-ahead bias is recognized, it is often hard to
find archived data that is bias-free. And even if found, their
histories tend to be short. Nevertheless, that’s the only data
that is fit to be used for ML.
3.5 Feature Engineering
We already wrote that unlike ML applications in images,
videos, speech, and texts, raw price data won’t work as
--- PAGE 210 ---
features for applications in finance. Sometimes extensive
features engineering is required. Firstly, we need to ensure
that a feature is stationary. This usually means time-
differencing a time series instead of using its levels, such as
taking differences of the logarithm of a price series to create
a log returns series, taking the percentage differences of a
GDP series to create a GDP-changes series, and so on.
Secondly, we need to properly merge time series with
different sampling frequencies. Thirdly, there are different
ways to handle similar features from a large pool of similar
assets. Lastly, if we purchase such features from a vendor
and do not create them from raw data ourselves, extra
precautions are needed. We will drill down on these issues
next.
3.5.1 Stationarity
It is obvious that we cannot use price levels of stocks as
either features or labels. The price may be $10 in year 2000,
and $10,000 in 2024 if we adjust for splits, and we simply
cannot train a ML model based on 2000 prices and expect
inferences to work with 2024 prices. We should convert price
to return series. But there are subtler time series where it is
not clear if they are stationary. For example, is the spread
between WTI crude oil futures and Brent crude oil futures
stationary? Is the spread between MSFT and GOOG
stationary? To determine those questions, we have to run a
stationarity test such as the augmented Dickey–Fuller test
(ADF) test to find out. If not, we can either time-difference
these spreads or construct a spread that is stationary to
begin with. Ernie has discussed many ways to construct a
stationary time series out of multiple nonstationary time
series in Chan (2013).
--- PAGE 211 ---
3.5.2 Merging Time Series with Different
Frequencies
The frequency that the ML model should make predictions is
up to the user. For example, do they want to trade at daily
intervals or weekly intervals? Once this frequency is
determined, we have to convert features data that may have
lower or higher frequency to conform to the label frequency.
The former is usually done by either filling the features with
NaN when they don’t have an updated value, or filling
forward with their last updated value. The former may be
appropriate if it is a categorical event feature such as “Was
the nonfarm payroll announced yesterday?” and the latter
may be appropriate if it is a numerical feature such as, “What
was the most recent percentage change in nonfarm payroll?”
Which method to adopt needs to be determined on a case-by-
case basis. When the features frequency is higher than the
label frequency, we must use a down-sampling method. The
default is just using the last updated value of the feature just
before the time stamp of the label. However, in some
situations it may be better to use some kind of average across
all the values during the intervals between two consecutive
labels. For example, if we are using a price series as raw
data, the former choice means sampling the last prices, while
the latter choice may mean taking the Volume-Weighted
Average Price (VWAP). After down-sampling these prices, we
can proceed to compute return features. In addition to taking
averages, other down-sampling techniques include taking
order statistics, like the max or min, familiar to investors as
taking the high or low of a price bar. There are many other
signal processing techniques one can apply. See López de
Prado (2018) for more details. But how do we down-sample
categorical features? To down-sample binary categorical
features with values 0 or 1, we can either treat them as real-
valued features and apply the aforementioned techniques or
we can apply the logical AND, OR, XOR operators. To down-
sample a multiclass categorical feature, we can first convert
--- PAGE 212 ---
it into a binary feature via one-hot encoding. For example, if
we have a three-class categorical feature, it can be converted
to three binary features, the first feature is whether the
original feature is of class A, the second feature is whether
the original feature is of class B, and the third feature is
whether the original feature is of class C. A -class
categorical feature can thus be represented by binary
features.
3.5.3 Time-series Versus Cross-sectional
Features
If we want to build a ML model to predict returns or other
attributes of several assets in the same category (e.g., S&P
500 stocks), we can surely use features that are specific to
each of these assets (e.g., past earnings yield of a stock).
These features are called cross-sectional features because
they span the cross-section of the asset universe. However,
what if we want to build a ML model to predict returns or
other attributes of the portfolio of assets as a whole? While
you may be right to think that MSFT’s earnings would
portend the returns of the SPY, in general each of these
cross-sectional features will be an extremely weak predictor,
and it is very inefficient to use so many of them as features. It
is better to aggregate these cross-sectional features into
something like a summary feature, similar to the way we
down-sample high-frequency features to low-frequency
features in the previous section. The aggregation method
isn’t new: it was based on Fama-French’s seminal paper
Fama and French (1995). First, we sort the assets based on
the cross-sectional feature in question (e.g., earnings yield).
Then we form a long-short portfolio based on this ranking
(e.g., the long portfolio contains stocks in the top decile of
earnings yield, and the short portfolio contain stocks in the
bottom decile.) This is called the “hedge” portfolio. The
resulting time-series feature is simply the return of this
--- PAGE 213 ---
portfolio over some past period. This way, we have collapsed
500 cross-sectional features (for an S&P 500 portfolio) into
just one time-series feature. The most famous of these time-
series features are none other than the Fama-French factors
discussed in Chapter 2. For more discussions, see Pik et. al.
(2025).
3.5.4 Validating Third-party Features
Sometimes a feature series is created by a third-party vendor
and not by ourselves from raw data. How would we know if
the feature is computed correctly? Case in point: we once
purchased historical and live sentiment data on financial
news articles from a vendor. The scores look reasonable, and
we proceeded to train a ML model using this data. Strangely,
upon further examination of the time-series data by taking
their min and max, we found the chart shown in Figure 3.12.
--- PAGE 214 ---
Figure 3.12 Daily minimum and maximum sentiment
scores that show structural breaks in the data
generating process.
There is a clear structural break in the data in 2015. The
vendor admitted that they have changed their methodology
for computing sentiment scores. Of course, that rendered all
the historical data prior to 2015 useless. But more ominously,
how would we know if they won’t change the methodology
again going forward?
The lesson from this experience is that careful and extensive
EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis) is needed when we are
purchasing features from third parties—ideally before you
commit to an annual contract.
--- PAGE 215 ---
3.5.5 Generative AI as a Feature Generator
The example we quoted above in relying on third-party
vendor for features is sobering. Back in the days, we
purchased those sentiment data because it wasn’t easy to
process unstructured data such as text and turn them into
numerical/structured data such as sentiment scores.
However, with Generative AI, this has become much easier.
We used this as example of Generative AI in Chapter 9 on
how we can compute sentiment scores, and whether they add
any value to an investment process.
Of course, whether or not the features are created by
ourselves or by a vendor, we can always use Generative AI to
conduct no-code EDA. Further, as demonstrated in the
previous chapters, we can even ask Generative AI to create
ML codes that can merge the features and labels into a file,
build a ML model, and assess the performance.
3.5.6 Features Importance Ranking and Selection
Recall that one of benefits of L1 regularization is that some
features will be eliminated altogether as input to a ML model.
Similarly, tree-based models typically only select a small
subset of features for their nodes before stopping at the
leaves. If one is merely concerned about test set
performance, we typically do not need to reduce the number
of features any further for CART. However, there is
sometimes a need for features importance ranking and
selection not for performance improvement, but for model
interpretability to humans and for features validation (i.e.,
sanity checks). The power of ML is that we can start with a
large features set, without regard to whether these features
are insignificant or redundant. But this inclusiveness is at the
expense of interpretability because humans will have no idea
how the model arrives at its inferences. Features importance
ranking alleviates that problem. For a real financial example,
--- PAGE 216 ---
see Table 7 of Chan et al. (2023). Sometimes, when the top
feature makes no sense whatsoever to us, we should
investigate whether that feature has embedded look-ahead
bias or is otherwise corrupted. Hence features importance
ranking also serves as a validation method.
As we discussed before, cMDA is our favored features
importance ranking method. We have explained the —
clustering—part. The MDA (Mean Decrease in Accuracy) part
is better known. The idea is that if we randomly permute the
samples of a feature (i.e., randomly permute the rows of a
column of a data/design matrix), the model should generate
lower predictive accuracy on a validation set. (We specified
validation set because it is almost guaranteed to generate
lower predictive accuracy if we corrupt the train set data
whether or not that feature is really important.) If we make
several of these permutations and compute the mean of the
decrease in accuracy (or log likelihood), we can use this
mean as a metric to rank the features’ importance. The
bigger the decrease, the more important is the feature.
There are other features importance ranking methods
besides MDA or cMDA, notably Shapley Additive
Explanations (SHAP), and Local Interpretable Model-Agnostic
Explanations (LIME) (Man and Chan, 2021a), but none of
them produces as interpretable results as cMDA. Cong et al.
(2021) also invented another interpretable AI technique that
approximates the ML model by a polynomial function of the
most important input features.
3.6 Conclusion
We have presented almost everything you need to know
about the various techniques of machine learning as relevant
to asset management but are afraid to ask (because some of
the details seem very trivial but are very critical for success).
The jury is still out on whether tree-based models, deep
--- PAGE 217 ---
learning, or reinforcement learning is the best method for
financial features and applications.
Can Generative AI help in a different way? Can it create
trading strategies unlike (i.e., uncorrelated with) those we
have seen before using expert systems and conventional
machine learning? Can it become a discretionary trader, a
“George Soros on a chip?” We will find out in the rest of the
book.
--- PAGE 218 ---
Part II
Deep Generative Models
for Trading and Asset
Management
--- PAGE 219 ---
Chapter 4
Understanding Generative AI
Generative models represent a fascinating frontier in the
advance of artificial intelligence. These models have the
ability to understand and generate complex, high-dimensional
data. This capability not only opens the door to numerous
practical applications but also offers deeper insight into the
underlying structure of data. This chapter explores the
essence of generative models, their applications, and the
differences with discriminative models that many quant
finance professionals have been familiar with. We will also
provide a taxonomy to navigate the landscape of generative
models (Figure 4.1).
Figure 4.1 Model taxonomy.
--- PAGE 220 ---
4.1 Why Generative Models
Generative models are pivotal for several reasons. Firstly,
they enable machines to generate new data instances that
resemble the data they have encountered during training,
effectively learning the distribution of the dataset. This ability
goes beyond merely replicating observed data; it’s about
understanding the underlying structure of the data to
generate new instances. Secondly, generative models
facilitate unsupervised learning tasks, where the machine
learns common patterns in the data without needing labeled
data. This aspect is crucial for exploiting the vast amounts of
unlabeled data available today and avoiding the costly and
time-consuming process of manual data labeling. Lastly, they
aid in understanding data distribution, enabling applications
for anomaly detection, data compression, and more.
We want to disabuse the reader of the notion that Generative
AI is only useful for understanding unstructured data such as
text or images, or that it is only useful for generating
synthetic data for simulation purposes. As the following
section illustrates, it can be crucial for the usual supervised
learning tasks using discriminative models that most quant
finance professionals are primarily interested in.
4.2 Difference with Discriminative
Models
At the heart of machine learning lies the quest to model and
make predictions from data. Discriminative and generative
models represent two approaches to this quest, differentiated
by the type of probability distribution they aim to learn from
the data.
Discriminative models focus on learning the probability of a
label or target given an input , denoted as . These
--- PAGE 221 ---
models excel in classification or regression tasks, where the
goal is to correctly predict the target. They are closely
associated with supervised learning tasks, where the models
are trained on a labeled dataset, learning to map inputs to
targets. Despite their powerful ability to determine the most
probable target for a given input, a critical limitation of
discriminative models is their inability to assess the likelihood
of the input data itself. This design limitation makes
them susceptible to adversarial attacks or misinterpretations
of novel or outlier data.
Generative models, on the other hand, aim to model the
distribution of data itself, learning either the joint probability
distribution or the unconditional probability
distribution . Unconditional generative models attempt to
learn the probability distribution of the input , enabling
them to generate new data instances that resemble the
training data. As an example, let’s suppose we want to model
the SPY ETF return data and decide to approximate its
distribution using a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM), one of
the simplest generative models. This model not only allows us
to generate new data instances but, as we will see in Chapter
6, it also captures some underlying structure of the data that
can be used for applications like regime detection. In general,
generative models provide a deeper understanding of the
data’s structure, enabling applications like data generation
and outlier detection.
Conditional generative models represent a hybrid approach,
learning to generate data conditioned on specific values of
, such as class labels, denoted as . These models
combine the generative capability to produce new instances
with the discriminative power to condition these instances on
particular attributes or classes, making them more robust to
adversarial attacks or misinterpretations of novel or outlier
data. As an example, commonly encountered, consider
models like ChatGPT, which can generate new data like text,
--- PAGE 222 ---
images, or source code conditioned on input prompts
provided by the user.
To illustrate the difference between discriminative and
generative models, let’s consider the classic dog vs. cat
classifier example. A discriminative model learns —the
probability of a label (dog or cat) given an image . At
inference time, it takes an input image and predicts the
probability that it belongs to each class. A conditional
generative model, on the other hand, learns , modeling
the probability of an image given a specific class .
This model can also be used as a classifier, known as a
generative classifier, by comparing the probability of an
image under versus . However,
unlike discriminative models, it can also generate new images
conditioned on a label. For example, when conditioned on
dog , the model can generate an image of a dog by
sampling from .
In this sense, a discriminative model maps the input image
to the output class label , while a generative model works in
reverse, generating from a given . Additionally, in
generative modeling, is not restricted to class labels—it can
also represent attributes or features.
The distinction between generative and discriminative
models, which may initially seem somewhat disconnected, is
rooted in Bayes’ rule of probability. This relationship is
illustrated by the equation
(4.1)
where represents the unconditional generative model,
corresponds to the discriminative model, is the
marginal probability over the labels, and is a
conditional model of given . By combining the strengths of
--- PAGE 223 ---
both unconditional generative models and discriminative
models, we can construct conditional generative models,
which can be used not only for conditional data generation
but also for supervised learning tasks, such as classification.
4.3 How Can We Use Them?
These models are designed with some key core abilities or
objectives in mind, which open a world of possibilities for
innovation, creativity, and efficiency across various domains.
Following is a summary of these characteristics, which we
will explore further in next chapters.
4.3.1 Probability Density Estimation
These models can approximate high-dimensional, multimodal
distributions of data. Once we have access to this versatile
object, we can develop and solve a wide range of
applications. Notable examples include multivariate time
series forecasting, as illustrated in Chapter 3, Value at Risk
(VaR) applications for risk management; anomaly detection,
and classification tasks.
Finance professionals are already familiar with high
dimensional probability distributions of returns, but they are
typically modeled as the multivariate versions of simple
parametric models such as the multivariate Gaussian or t-
distribution. More advanced models such as copulas attempt
to capture the nonlinear nature of the co-dependency
between variables, but at the heart of them are still simple
parametric models. Generative AI, on the other hand, allow
much more complex, nonlinear, distributions that cannot be
expressed in simple parametric forms.
--- PAGE 224 ---
4.3.2 Generating New Data
At the heart of generative models’ capabilities is their power
to create. They can produce highly complex, high-dimensional
objects, like realistic images, videos, text, computer code,
multivariate time series, etc. This makes them invaluable
across applications like entertainment, marketing,
productivity tools, and risk management. Their ability to
generate data is often indistinguishable from humans. This
ability goes beyond simply crafting content that is often
indistinguishable from human-created work, as seen in widely
available examples in the media at the time of writing.
New generated data can be used for the following:
Improving data quality and availability: Generated data
can address challenges related to data scarcity and
quality. These models can augment existing datasets,
especially in fields where data collection is expensive or
impractical, by creating new data instances and
enhancing datasets for downstream learning tasks.
Facilitating discovery and decision-making: one of the
most promising applications of generative models lies in
their ability to simulate and predict complex, high-
dimensional structures and phenomena. In the
pharmaceutical industry, for example, these models can
predict molecular structures, potentially leading to
groundbreaking drugs. Additionally, they can simulate
environments for AI training, such as for reinforcement
learning applications with are known to be very data
hungry, therefore reducing the need for costly and time-
consuming real-world data collection, accelerating
research and development across fields as diverse as
autonomous driving and urban planning.
--- PAGE 225 ---
4.3.3 Learning New Data Representations
The goal of finding new data representations, or
representation learning, is to discover an effective way to
represent data. Ideally, this new representation should
possess desirable properties, such as lower dimensionality
compared to the data space or “independent” axes of
variation. This new representation serves as a compressed
form of the data that can be used for solving downstream
tasks such as prediction, anomaly detection, or data
generation (see Torralba et al., [2024]).
Many finance professionals are already familiar with
representation learning disguised in other names: factor
models, PCA, etc. Some of which we already discussed in
Chapter 3, but we will reframe them within the Generative AI
framework. This allows us to potentially improve on them at a
fundamental level.
The power of representation learning allows you to combine
multiple models as building blocks to develop complex
applications. We will explore examples of using them,
particularly in Chapters 9 and 10, where they are applied to
train a model specialized in sentiment analysis for financial
data.
4.4 Illustrating Generative Models with
ChatGPT
To better understand how we can use generative models for
computing probability densities and generate new data, let’s
examine a concrete example in Natural Language Processing
(NLP). For simplicity, we’ll set aside specific model details
and instead focus on a pre-built model, ChatGPT, examining
its density estimation, sampling, and representation learning
capabilities.
--- PAGE 226 ---
Let’s consider a sequence of random variables where each
variable represents a word or token in a sentence. (For this
example, we’ll ignore the distinction between words and
tokens, which will be covered in Chapter 5.) Each element in
the sequence takes values from a finite vocabulary—a
discrete set. In ChatGPT-4o, for example, the vocabulary
consists of 16,384 unique tokens (See OpenAI documentation
at https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-4-and-gpt-4-
turbo), which include common words, word fragments, and
characters.
A probabilistic model for a sequence is defined by its joint
probability distribution:
4.4.1 Language Modeling
Modeling this joint probability over a sequence of
words/tokens is what is known as the Language Modeling
(LM) task in NLP. One of the most straightforward ways to
express this joint distribution is by applying the product rule
of probability:
(4.2)
Models that exploits the right-hand side of Equation 4.2 to
represent joint distributions as a sequence of conditional
probabilities like this are known as autoregressive models. As
it turns out, ChatGPT is an instance of an autoregressive
model, specifically a transformer-based model, which we will
explore in Chapter 5.
--- PAGE 227 ---
From Equation 4.2, we see that each conditional probability
models the likelihood of the next word/token given the
previous ones. In other words, ChatGPT performs
probabilistic “one-step-ahead” forecasts, where each
prediction is based on past values, or past context.
A key question is: How many previous words can ChatGPT
consider when making predictions?
This is defined by what is known in NLP as the context
window. As of the time of writing, the context window of
ChatGPT-4o is 128,000 tokens, meaning it can analyze up to
128,000 previous tokens to estimate the probability of the
next one (https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/gpt-4-
and-gpt-4-turbo). This significantly enhances its ability to
capture long-range dependencies in text.
4.4.2 Sampling: How Generative Models Create
New Data
Language models are generative models, meaning they can
generate new sequences by sampling from the learned
probability distribution. The process follows these steps:
Generate the first token,
Generate the second token,
Continue generating tokens,
Since sampling is sequential, each newly generated token
depends on previously generated ones, making the process
relatively slow for autoregressive models.
--- PAGE 228 ---
4.4.3 Conditional Language Generation: Asking
ChatGPT a Question
Just as we can model a sequence of words/tokens with a
language model, we can also generate text conditionally. That
is, we can condition the generated output on some given
context, such as a question or a prompt, which we will denote
in the following example as . This process is used in question
answering, where the model generates responses conditioned
on user input.
Mathematically, the conditional version of the product rule is
given by:
(4.3)
Sampling follows the same sequential process described in
Equation 4.3:
Generate the first token
Generate the second token
Continue generating tokens
To illustrate this, we first ask ChatGPT to generate humorous
responses to our prompts. Now, let’s consider the following
user prompt:
User Prompt
What do Mark Zuckerberg and Elon Musk have in
common?
--- PAGE 229 ---
When ChatGPT generates a response to given prompt, it
follows the process outlined above, predicting one word at a
time based on the probabilities it assigns to possible next
tokens conditioned on previous tokens and the prompt ( ).
Here’s an example response generated by ChatGPT-4o:
ChatGPT Response
They both have enough money to buy a small country … or
at least a really nice pizza place!
Now, how did ChatGPT-4o generate this response?
To understand its output, we used the OpenAI API to access
both the sequence of tokens generated by ChatGPT-4o and
the probabilities associated with each token in the
vocabulary. Since ChatGPT-4o has a vocabulary size of
16,384 unique tokens, visualizing the entire probability
distribution over the next word would be impractical. Instead,
we display only the top 20 most probable tokens based on
their probabilities.
Step-by-Step Breakdown: How the AR Model Generates a
Response
1. Computing the first word’s conditional probabilities
Conditioned on the prompt, the model calculates the
probabilities of the first word.
As shown in Figure 4.2, the top choices include
“They”, “They’re”, and “Both”.
--- PAGE 230 ---
Figure 4.2 Conditional probability of the first
token given the prompt .
The model samples “They” (which happens to be the
most probable word in this case).
2. Computing the second word’s conditional probabilities
Next, the model predicts the probabilities of the
second word, conditioned on the prompt and the first
word (“They”).
As shown in Figure 4.3, the top choices include is
“both”.
Figure 4.3 Conditional probability of the
second token given the prompt and previous
token : .
The model samples “both.”
3. Computing the third word’s conditional probabilities
Now, the model predicts the next word, conditioned
on the prompt, “They” and “both”.
--- PAGE 231 ---
As shown in Figure 4.4, the most probable words are
“have” “now” and “think.”
Figure 4.4 Conditional probability of the third
token given the prompt and previous tokens
, : .
The model samples “have”.
4. Computing the fourth word’s conditional probabilities
The model then predicts the next word, given the
prompt, “They”, “both”, and “have”.
As shown in Figure 4.5, the top choices include
“enough”, “more”, “a”, and “billions.”
Figure 4.5 Conditional probability of the
fourth token given the prompt and previous
tokens , , : .
The model samples “enough.”
5. Computing the fifth word’s conditional probabilities
--- PAGE 232 ---
The model continues, now predicting the next word
given the prompt, “They”, “both”, “have”, and
“enough”.
As shown in Figure 4.6, the most probable words
include “money”, “wealth”, and “cash”.
Figure 4.6 Conditional probability of the
fourth token given the prompt and previous
tokens , , , : .
The model samples “money.”
6. The process continues
The model sequentially predicts each word based on
the previous ones and the original prompt until it
forms a coherent response.
Each word generated depends on the probability distribution
estimated by the model at that step. In this case, data
generation is performed using the probability density
function. This process illustrates how autoregressive
generative models perform sampling in a real-world scenario.
Beyond data generation, probability density estimation can
also be applied to forecasting the next most probable token
or answering questions about the probability of rare words in
a text. This becomes even more relevant when shifting from
modeling a sequence of words to modeling a sequence of
financial returns, a topic we will explore in Chapter 5. These
techniques can be used for applications such as anomaly
--- PAGE 233 ---
detection or for computing key financial metrics like Value at
Risk (VaR).
As you can see, generative models can function as simulators,
which are widely used in finance. A well-known example is
option pricing, especially for complex option payoffs using
Monte Carlo techniques.
In the example above, the sampling process selects the
word/token from the vocabulary with the highest probability
at each step. However, in practice, ChatGPT may use more
complex sampling strategies (such as temperature scaling or
top-k/top-p sampling) to generate more diverse and
contextually relevant responses.
If you prefer video lectures, a tutorial based on this section,
presented by the authors of this book, can be found on
YouTube. You can search for: Trading Using LLM | Generative
AI & Sentiment Analysis for Finance | Webinar on the
QuantInsti Quantitative Learning YouTube channel.
As you might have noticed with this example, even though
these models are highly effective at generating new data, a
key question arises: how can we evaluate the quality of the
generated data if every run produces different results? As we
saw in Chapter 3, the answer is clear for applications like
forecasting, where you can compare the true realized values
against your predictions using a chosen metric, such as mean
squared error.
In our experience developing applications, one of the best
ways to evaluate the quality of generated data is to use it for
training a downstream model to solve a specific task. By
combining the real data with the newly generated data, you
can train the model and assess whether its performance
improves. However, many metrics for evaluating the quality
of generated samples are available in the literature, and we
will use several of them throughout the book to assess the
performance of these models in data generation.
--- PAGE 234 ---
In the accompanying notebook [Synthetic Data Evaluation—
Notebook], we will walk through an example to explain the
different metrics we will use in our experiments in the book.
This example highlights how ChatGPT, as an autoregressive
model, generates text by modeling probability distributions
over sequences of tokens.
4.4.4 A Few Words on Representation Learning
with ChatGPT
As mentioned earlier, representation learning is about
discovering effective ways to encode data that facilitates
solving downstream tasks such as prediction, anomaly
detection, data generation, among others. Surprisingly,
ChatGPT also has the capability to compute new
representations of input data in the form of vectors, also
known as embeddings or vector embeddings in the NLP
literature. These embeddings capture semantic information
about words and concepts, enabling us to manipulate and
“understand language” by performing mathematical
operations with these objects. We will explore embeddings in
more details in Chapter 5.
OpenAI provides access to ChatGPT embeddings through its
API, allowing users to use these representations for solving
applications.
As a use case, imagine you are an investor or a discretionary
trader tracking a set of companies where you either hold
positions in your portfolio or are considering an allocation.
Let’s say that you frequently analyze 10-K and 10-Q filings,
earnings transcripts, and financial analysis reports to make
informed decisions. However, retrieving relevant information
across multiple documents can be very time consuming.
Wouldn’t it be useful to have a way to extract specific insights
from these sources? For example, imagine asking a question
--- PAGE 235 ---
like “What are the risks associated with Company XYZ?”, and
having a system that retrieve relevant documents where
these risks are mentioned. To solve this kind of problem, text
representations might come to rescue.
To approach this, the first step is to build a knowledge
database using vector embeddings. Here’s how:
1. Chunking the Documents: Break each financial report or
document into manageable chunks (e.g., sentences,
paragraphs, or pages).
2. Generating Embeddings: Use OpenAI’s Embeddings API
to generate vector representations for each document
chunk. Store these embeddings in a database.
3. Performing Semantic Search: When a user submits a
query (e.g., “What are the risks associated with Company
XYZ?”), converts the query into an embedding. This
embedding is then compared against stored embeddings
in the database using a similarity measure, such as cosine
similarity. Then, you can retrieve the top K most relevant
text chunks, such that you get the most contextually
relevant information for your query.
This embedding-based retrieval approach is a core building
block for more advanced techniques like Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG), see
https://help.openai.com/en/articles/8868588-retrieval-
augmented-generation-rag-and-semantic-search-for-gpts.
RAG enables Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate
responses based on external knowledge by enriching the
input query, allowing you to customize your LLM for your
specific domain without fine-tuning the model. More details
on this topic can be found in Chapter 10.
--- PAGE 236 ---
4.5 Hybrid Modeling: Combining
Generative and Discriminative Models
To illustrate the benefits of combining both modeling
approaches, let’s consider an example from commodity
trading.
Commodity trading involves buying and selling raw materials
such as agricultural products, oil, and natural gas, etc.
Success in this field often depends on our ability to
accurately predicting supply and demand. For instance, in
energy trading, investors and traders would like to track
global oil and gas production, which is distributed across
different regions of the world.
A particularly useful application of machine learning in this
field is leveraging satellite imagery to monitor fracking
operations—specifically, detecting well pads (prepared sites
where the drilling process occurs). This use case is
mentioned in SkyFi’s blog, at
https://skyfi.com/en/blog/synmax-case-study. SkyFi is a
company that provides satellite imagery data and analytics.
Let’s say we have access to this data, and we are considering
how it can be used to make informed trading decisions. One
idea could be to build a classifier that takes satellite images
as input and outputs the probability of a well pad being
present. This model could be used to estimate the number of
active well pads, providing insights into natural gas
production and enabling investors and hedge funds to
improve their decision making. In the case of fully systematic
strategies, for example, the output of such a model could be
incorporated into more complex factor-based trading
strategies.
Now, let’s imagine the process of actually building this
model. We’ll denote the input image as and the binary label
as , indicating whether a well pad is present. A common
--- PAGE 237 ---
approach is to use a discriminative model that directly
estimates —the probability of a well pad being present
given the satellite image.
We can assume we’ve collected a high-quality dataset of
satellite images, all labeled with precision—either by human
annotators or another reliable method. Let’s say we use a
Deep Neural Network model to solve this problem. The model
takes an input image and directly outputs the probability of
, indicating the presence of a well pad. If the model
performs well on test data—measured using common
classification metrics like AUC, precision, or recall—we might
be tempted to think the problem is solved.
However, real-world deployment presents challenges. One
key issue is that unexpected noise in the inputs caused by
multiple factors might affect performance. Let’s consider
what happens when our model encounters an image that is
significantly different from anything it has seen before. What
will output?
What if an input image has been affected by severe weather
and environmental factors? For example, clouds, which cover
around 70% of the Earth’s surface at any given time,
according to NASA’s Earth Observatory
(https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/features/CloudsGallery),
can obscure key features. What happens if an input image is
completely covered by clouds?. Or, instead of clouds, what if
geopolitical crises destroy major pipelines or natural
disasters drastically alter the landscape? In real-time
production environments, the input images may differ
drastically from those in our training set. What will
output in such cases?
--- PAGE 238 ---
Ideally, in situations of extreme uncertainty, we’d want our
model to simply say, “I don’t know,” and return
. But in reality, that’s often not
the case. Instead, the model may still produce an
overconfident prediction.
This problem is well-documented in deep learning, and
uncertainty in deep learning remains an active area of
research. These models often achieve impressive
performance, but they are unable to recognize “when they
don’t know”. For example, in the paper ‘‘Deep Neural
Networks are Easily Fooled:High Confidence Predictions for
Unrecognizable Images’’ by Nguyen, Yosinski, and Clune
(2015), the authors conducted experiments where state-of-
the-art classifiers were presented with input images
consisting of random noise that were unrecognizable for
humans. Despite of the input been random noise, deep neural
networks (DNNs) trained on ImageNet classified these inputs
with confidence as belonging to familiar object
categories, see Nguyen, Yosinski, and Clune (2015). This
experiment provides empirical evidence on how modern deep
learning models can be overconfident in their predictions,
even when the input is entirely noise. Ideally, we would want
our model to be robust to such inputs.
This issue arises when the distribution of the training data
differs significantly from the distribution encountered during
at inference time, a problem known in the machine learning
literature as the out-of-distribution (OOD) problem or dataset
shift. In the time series and finance literature, this is
commonly referred to as the non-stationarity problem.
Without going into too much detail, two common scenarios
encountered in practice are covariate shift, where the
distribution of input features changes at inference time,
and open set recognition, which occurs when new, unseen
classes appear at inference time that were not present during
training.
--- PAGE 239 ---
One fundamental limitation of modeling alone is that,
since it represents a probability distribution over , the model
is forced to assign probability mass over of the known
classes, regardless of the input. In a binary classification
scenario, for instance, the model must satisfy:
As a side note regarding satellite imagery and geopolitical
crisis, SkyFi mentions in its blog how satellite imagery was
used in 2022 to track energy infrastructure in Ukraine,
including power plants, pipelines, and fuel storage facilities.
Well, let’s get back to our problem. The question is: how can
we solve or mitigate issues like this?
A common solution used in practice is to introduce a new
class, typically called an unknown class, where images that
do not belong to any of the target categories are labeled as
unknown. However, this introduces another challenge: how
many classes that do not belong to the target categories
should we label as “unknown”? How many examples should
we include for each of these classes to achieve good coverage
of all possible out-of-distribution (OOD) inputs? If we rely on
this method alone, we might find ourselves endlessly adding
new categories without truly solving the problem. So, can we
tackle this issue using a different approach?
One approach to solving this problem could be combining
generative and discriminative models. The main issue with
the previous approach is that, at training time, the new image
was not present in the training set. But what if we had a way
to quantify the probability that comes from the training
distribution? What if, instead of modeling , we modeled
instead?
By applying the product rule, we know that:
.
--- PAGE 240 ---
This means that if we can build a model for (a generative
model for the input features) and a separate discriminative
model for , we could potentially provide a solution to
our problem. Since our model aims to approximate the
probability distribution of the data, it should assign high
probability density to familiar images (inputs) and low
probability density to those that are out of distribution.
Consequently, inputs that are out of distribution relative to
the training set should have low probability density under
.
For an OOD input during training, should be low,
which in turn attenuates the product , making it
also low. We can then use a probability threshold to decide
whether to trust the prediction. For example, if
falls below a certain value, it indicates too much uncertainty,
and the model should avoid making a confident prediction.
Thus, this hybrid modeling approach allows us to combine
our preferred discriminative model with a generative model,
improving robustness to OOD inputs and uncertainty
estimation, leading to better decision-making.
Another use case, distinct from the satellite imagery example,
is the well-known application in finance for predicting market
regimes. Suppose we have collected a dataset consisting of
pairs of inputs and targets , where is a binary variable
indicating whether the next market state corresponds to a
bull or bear market. The inputs represent features or
characteristics of the current market state that we believe
provide valuable information for predicting the next market
regime state.
Similar to the previous case on satellite imagery, if we collect
data only relevant for bull and bear markets—each with
specific characteristics encoded in —what happens when we
encounter a new input that is very different from those
observed in either regime? As before, if we model , the
--- PAGE 241 ---
system will still provide a high-confidence prediction for
either bull or bear, even if the input does not fit either
category well.
However, modeling could offer additional insights into
the novelty of a given input. This can be useful in two ways:
1. As a standalone anomaly detection system, identifying
inputs that deviate significantly from the training
distribution.
2. In combination with a discriminative model, improving
forecasts by accounting for out-of-distribution (OOD)
inputs and uncertainty.
Now, the question is: if we take this approach, how can we
build and ? There are multiple ways to do this, but
two main approaches are described below.
One straightforward solution is to build them independently
and then attempt to combine them as . However,
there is no guarantee that this will work. In practice,
sometimes it performs very well, and other times it does not.
This approach may also require numerous iterations over
both models, as they are trained independently and
decoupled from each other by design.
We can consider an example in finance. You may be building
a ML-based trading model to predict the returns of some
volatility futures. But there is a great risk of overfitting due to
the limited historical data. It may therefore be advantageous
to learn from the vast amount of historical data from across
all financial series, futures, stocks, FX, or otherwise, and use
that as prior probability of the volatility futures returns. We
may also be using certain technical indicators as input to this
supervised learning model. Computing the marginal
probability of these indicators may inform us if certain input
are outliers and may not generalize.
--- PAGE 242 ---
Another way to approach this problem is by making the
models dependent on each other. This idea is explored in the
paper ‘‘Hybrid Models with Deep and Invertible Features’’ by
Nalisnick et al. (2019). The key idea is to use a latent variable
model that not only captures the distribution of the data but
also serves as an input to the discriminative model. This way,
both models are tightly coupled and depend on the same
latent representation. The training of and is now
coupled.
In the paper, they use a flow model for (a type of
generative modeling you’ll learn more about in Chapter 7)
and a Generalized Linear Model (GLM) for . This setup
makes it possible to apply the approach to both general
classification and regression problems.
4.6 Taxonomy of Generative Models
Generative models can be broadly categorized into two main
types based on how they model data distribution: Explicit
Density Models and Implicit Density Models. Explicit Density
Models explicitly define and calculate the probability
distribution of the data. Examples of Explicit Density Models
include the following:
Autoregressive Models: These models generate data
sequentially, predicting each piece of the data based on
what has been generated so far.
Variational Autoencoders (VAEs): VAEs learn to encode
input data into a lower-dimensional space and then
decode it back, allowing for efficient data generation.
Flow Models: This family of models transforms simple
distributions into complex ones, maintaining the ability to
calculate the exact likelihood of the data.
--- PAGE 243 ---
Diffusion Models: These models gradually add noise to
data and learn to reverse this process, generating data by
denoising. (We don’t have space to discuss diffusion
models in this book, but we will cite references to it.)
On the other hand, Implicit Density Models aim to generate
data by capturing the data distribution without explicitly
defining it. A well-known example of these models is:
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs): GANs involve a
dual-network architecture where one network generates
data and the other evaluates it, leading to highly realistic
outputs.
See Figure 4.1 for a categorization of the main types of
generative models.
Each model family, as specified in the model taxonomy, has
its own advantages and disadvantages for abilities mentioned
in the previous section. In the accompanying notebook
[Model Family Comparison—Notebook], we present a list of
the main model families and compare their efficiency. This
table is something we hope to keep updating as new models
are released or better techniques are developed.
4.7 Conclusion
Generative models represent a profound shift in AI’s
capabilities. By learning to understand and manipulate data,
they enable us to categorize the world as it is and to imagine
and create what it could be. From creating art to advancing
scientific discovery, Generative AI is not just a tool for
innovation but a foundation for future advancements in the
field. In the following chapter, we will dive deeper into each
of the key model families for generative models.
--- PAGE 244 ---
Chapter 5
Deep Autoregressive Models for
Sequence Modeling
Autoregressive (AR) models are a familiar presence in the
quantitative investor’s toolbox. After all, the most basic
financial data is a price series (sequence), and who doesn’t
want to predict the next price? In Chan (2017), Ernie
discussed the various linear predictive AR models such as
AR(p), ARMA(p,q), VAR, VEC, and state space models such
as the Kalman filter. In this chapter, we will find out whether
we can push the envelope by adopting nonlinear techniques
from deep learning for such a “sequence modeling” problem.
Beyond predictions, AR can be used for anomaly detection
and data generation applications as well. It falls under the
category of explicit density models, as illustrated in Figure
5.1. This means it proposes a tractable probability density
model to approximate the data distribution .
--- PAGE 245 ---
Figure 5.1 Model taxonomy: Autoregressive models.
Sequential data means that data appear in sequences where
a natural or artificial order is present. This principle enables
the construction of probabilistic models for any variable in
the sequence by conditioning on its preceding values.
This feature makes them useful for applications involving
inherently ordered data, such as audio signals,
meteorological phenomena (e.g., precipitation patterns), text
data for Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications, or
human-created time series like the ones found in financial
markets. Remarkably, AR models also apply to datasets
lacking of inherent order, such as images. By imposing an
order among the pixels within the image, AR models can
generate complete images one pixel at a time, as
demonstrated with the PixelCNN architecture, see Oord et al.
(2016b) for more details.
--- PAGE 246 ---
5.1 Representation Complexity
Consider a sequence of random variables . A
probabilistic model of the sequence is specified by its joint
probability distribution, . Through
the application of the product rule in probability, we can
decompose the joint distribution into a product of
conditionals:
(5.1)
AR models simplify the modeling of high-dimensional
distributions by exploiting the right-hand side of Equation
5.1, modeling a series of conditional distributions.
These distributions provide probabilistic descriptions for
each variable based on its predecessors in the sequence,
transforming complex high-dimensional modeling into a
series of more manageable conditional probabilities that are
easier to represent and estimate.
Despite AR models’ simplification of high-dimensional
problem into more manageable one-dimensional conditional
distributions, the computational cost of inference and storage
remains a challenge. For example, in financial time series
like the S&P500, discretizing values into a finite states, let’s
say, five states—a common practice in financial applications,
such as the NUMERAI Hedge Fund competition—illustrates
the complexity. As an example, consider modeling the
conditional distribution given the
previous values in the sequence. Think of this example
--- PAGE 247 ---
as forecasting the next day’s returns of a security based on
the last month of daily returns, similar to trading applications
where the past month’s data is used for prediction. This
approach would require a huge probability table with
entries, which is clearly impractical. Instead of specifying
conditional probabilities through table lookups, a
parameterized model is necessary. However, even with a
parameterized approach, modeling interactions between all
variables can result in a prohibitive number of parameters.
Therefore, we need to find ways to reduce the number of
parameters.
5.2 Representation and Complexity
Reduction
One way to reduce the number of parameters in the model is
by making assumptions about the structure of the joint
distribution in Equation 5.1. These assumptions might
include specifications about variable interactions, density
forms, etc.
One approach to reduce complexity is to impose conditional
probability assumptions, such that to model we do not
need the knowledge of the entire sequence of previous values
. For example, we could say that to model , all
we need to know is the value of , suggesting that all
relevant information is contained in this variable. (There is
no loss of generality in assuming that only depends on the
previous state , because we could just redefine a state to
include information from a longer lookback period.)
Mathematically, we express this as
, also known
as the Markov Property. We touched on this in Chapter 3
when we discussed the Hidden Markov Model.
--- PAGE 248 ---
Another technique involves weight sharing, where, in the
case of the previous example, the conditional probability
is independent of the sequence position ,
imposing a kind of invariance or stationarity across the
sequence.
These simplifications also reduce the expressiveness of the
model by narrowing the types of probability distributions that
can be represented.
To illustrate the concept of conditional independence and
model stationarity in sequence modeling, let’s consider a
practical example involving an AR model or order 2, denoted
as AR(2). An AR(2) model factorizes the joint probability of a
sequence as follows:
(5.2)
In this scenario, we assume that takes values in the space
and that we can further model each conditional
probability using a Gaussian distribution. Specifically, for any
given , the conditional probability is
expressed as:
(5.3)
here denotes a Gaussian distribution with the mean
determined by the linear combination of the two preceding
values in the sequence and a constant term, and with
constant variance . As an example of using a linear AR
models, the accompanying notebook [AR Notebook]
demonstrates forecasting the quarterly growth rate of the US
gross national product (GNP).
--- PAGE 249 ---
This Gaussian assumption is for illustration only. We do not
need to constrain ourselves to any particular form of the
density function . We could even choose to model
variables taking values in either continuous or discrete
spaces. The choice of the density function may determine
whether you frame the task as a classification problem or a
regression problem, each with its own distinct
characteristics. These representations will have their
advantages and disadvantages in terms of efficient training
and model representation, expressiveness and generalization,
sampling quality and speed, and compression rate.
In this chapter, we will explore various model classes that are
commonly used to model conditional probabilities, starting
from traditional to more cutting-edge architectures. We will
start with model families such as Logistic Regression to lay
the groundwork and clarify essential concepts. Next we
explore Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Network
leading to more complex families. We then advance to
innovations that serve as the cornerstone of modern
architectures, including Causal Masked Neural Networks,
specifically WaveNet, and transformers. (The discussion on
Causal Masked Neural Networks is inspired by insights
gained from the lecture slides of Abbeel et al. [2020]).
To illustrate main concepts and techniques for image
applications, we will use the standard Binary MNIST dataset
(Larochelle and Murray, 2011), a canonical example in
Computer Vision. Even though we use simple datasets, these
models have the potential to extend far beyond these basic
applications.
These models can be used to develop trading strategies
utilizing alternative data. For instance, analyzing satellite
images of crop fields can help predict commodity prices
(Guida, 2019; Denev and Amen, 2020), while observations of
retail parking lots can forecast retail company earnings
(Guida, 2019), among other applications. Of course, we can
--- PAGE 250 ---
also apply these models to price, or more appropriately,
returns series.
By the end of the chapter, we will provide examples of how
these models can be applied for asset management and
trading, while also exploring how Transformer models can be
adapted for time-series forecasting tasks. In Chapter 9,
“Leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) for Text Data
Analysis in Trading,” we will demonstrate how to construct a
simple high-frequency trading strategy using Auto Regressive
Generative Models to process speech signals from Federal
Reserve announcements to inform trading decisions.
5.3 A Short Tour of Key Model Families
5.3.1 Logistic Regression Model
The binary MNIST dataset (Larochelle and Murray, 2011) is
a simplified version of the original MNIST dataset, which has
been widely used as a benchmark in computer vision.
This dataset consists of 28 × 28 pixel images, with each pixel
falling into , representing the color black or white at
that pixel location. The binary constraints means that there
are possible images, highlighting the fact that any
practical training set can cover only a very small portion of
all potential image configurations. Indeed, the dataset
contains only 60,000 images for training and 10,000 images
for testing.
In this context, an image is an element of the space
.
As typical examples of digits in the dataset, see Figure 5.2.
--- PAGE 251 ---
Figure 5.2 Sample from the Binarized MNIST dataset.
Larochelle and Murray (2011).
For a given image , we can write its joint probability as
follows:
(5.4)
This factorization is presented verbosely to highlight two key
aspects of this model:
Lack of parameters sharing
No assumptions of conditional independence
In this model, each conditional probability is modeled using a
logistic model defined as:
--- PAGE 252 ---
(5.5)
(Recall from Chapter 3 that the logistic model is defined in
terms of the sigmoid function.) Here, a unique set of
parameters is assigned to each conditional. This
model is known as a fully visible sigmoid belief network
(FVSBN); see Frey et al. (1995).
So far, we have discussed several model representations and
will introduce a few more. Keep in mind, however, that model
training and parameter estimation will be covered in detail in
Section 5.4 of this chapter.
5.3.1.1 Sampling from FVSN.
The sampling process involves generating one pixel at a time,
sequentially. For example, the first pixel is sample from its
distribution, . Subsequent pixels are generated
conditioned on the pixel values realized previously, e.g.,
, continuing in this manner for the rest of
the pixels. This method is known as Ancestral Sampling
(Bishop, 2006).
Instead of modeling the conditionals using a logistic model,
we could explore using a different function to enhance model
expressiveness, such as a Neural Network. Here,
(5.6)
where now . Of course,
modeling with a Neural Network will increase the number of
parameters to estimate.
--- PAGE 253 ---
5.3.2 Masked Autoencoder for Density
Estimation (MADE)
The Masked Autoencoder for Density Estimation (MADE), see
Germain et al. (2015), represents a significant advancement
in the field of Generative AI by enhancing the capabilities of
traditional autoencoders. Traditional autoencoders compress
input data into a latent representation and then attempt to
reconstruct it, introducing and denoising noise in the
process. However, they are limited in their ability to generate
new data points or to model the probability distribution of the
data.
MADE addresses these limitations by introducing a
sequential dependency among the input variables, following
the chain rule of probability. This method ensures that the
generation of any data point in the sequence does not depend
on future data points, adhering to a predefined ordering. This
innovation allows MADE to output probabilities and sample
new data points in a way that respects the underlying data
distribution, marking a departure from traditional
autoencoders.
Key features of MADE include its flexibility in handling input
variables of varying dimensionality and its use of a softmax
output for each variable, representing a probability
distribution from which new data points can be sampled. The
model’s structure, which incorporates masked connections
between nodes, enables it to maintain the autoregressive
property essential for accurate density estimation.
Illustrating the application of MADE, experiments on
datasets like MNIST demonstrate its capability to generate
digit images that increasingly resemble authentic data points
with extended training. Figure 5.3 shows an image generated
in the left and its nearest neighbor in the right, which is a
very good practice to verify the model is not just learning the
--- PAGE 254 ---
images of the dataset, and that it is actually generating new
ones.
Figure 5.3 MADE Generation on MNIST. Left: samples
from a MADE model. Right: Nearest neighbor in
binarized MNIST.
Source: Germain et al. (2015).
In conclusion, MADE’s innovative approach to combining
autoencoder frameworks with probabilistic modeling
techniques has established it as a foundational model in
Generative AI. Its contribution lies in its ability to generate
new data points and model data distributions more
accurately, paving the way for further advancements in the
field.
5.3.3 Causal Masked Neural Network Models
Causal Masked Neural Networks have emerged as a leading
approach in the field of Generative AI, building on the
foundational concepts introduced by models like MADE. This
approach has advanced the state of generative modeling by
implementing efficient parameter sharing and introducing
--- PAGE 255 ---
coordinate coding to incorporate location information about
data sequences.
At the heart of Causal Masked Neural Networks is the
principle of parameterizing conditionals with a neural
network, similar to MADE, but with a crucial innovation: the
use of the same neural network parameters across different
stages of the generation process. This approach is akin to
applying a “sliding window” over the data, allowing the
repetitive use of a set of parameters, significantly increasing
model efficiency by reducing the total number of parameters
needed while still modeling high-dimensional data.
To address the challenges associated with parameter
sharing, particularly the potential loss of positional
information in data such as images, these networks
incorporate coordinate coding. This technique involves
feeding the location coordinates of data points (e.g., pixels in
an image) into the model along with the data itself, enabling
the network to retain spatial awareness despite the uniform
use of parameters across different positions. Coordinate
coding can be implemented in various forms, such as one-hot
encodings or relative position encodings, adding a layer of
flexibility to the model’s design.
5.3.3.1 WaveNet.
One of the first and most successful implementations of this
approach was WaveNet (see Oord et al., 2016a), a model
primarily designed for generating speech. Its influence
extends beyond academic circles, with variations of the
model being implemented in real-world systems such as
personal assistants on smartphones. WaveNet is recognized
for its superior audio generation quality, making it a
cornerstone in the evolution of audio synthesis technologies.
WaveNet utilizes 1D convolutional layers and introduces
additional techniques like dilation in convolutions to capture
--- PAGE 256 ---
information from further back in the sequence, see Figure
5.4. This means WaveNet can capture longer-range
dependencies within the audio data more efficiently,
improving the quality and naturalness of the generated
audio. This model has showcased the potential of this
approach not only for audio data but also for a wide range of
sequential data types.
Figure 5.4 Visualization of a stack of causal
convolutional layers. Figure 2 from Oord et al.
(2016a).
In practice, WaveNet utilizes a stack of dilated causal
convolutional layers to enable networks to have very large
receptive fields, thereby allowing the network to consider
inputs located far away in the sequence. For example, Figure
5.5 illustrates dilated causal convolutions with dilations of 1,
2, 4, and 8, as shown in the paper by Oord et al. (2016a).
--- PAGE 257 ---
Figure 5.5 Visualization of a stack of dilated causal
convolutional layers. Figure 3 from Oord et al.
(2016a).
As an example of using WaveNet, the accompanying
notebook [WaveNet Notebook] demonstrates its application
for forecasting financial data, providing an opportunity for
hands-on learning with this type of models
Despite the efficiency and expressiveness of Causal Masked
Neural Network Models, challenges remain, particularly in
the context of sampling. Generating new data points requires
processing each element sequentially, which can be slow.
However, the training process benefits from parallelism,
significantly speeding up model learning. Moreover, concerns
about the finite context window—how far back the model can
look when generating the next part of a sequence—have been
mitigated by advancements in attention mechanisms.
5.3.4 Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)
As discussed in Chapter 3, Recurrent Neural Networks
(RNNs) are well known for their ability to process sequential
data with an effectively infinite look-back capability. This
feature distinguishes them from other models that are limited
to fixed-size inputs, enabling RNNs to dynamically
incorporate all prior information in a sequence. This
capability makes RNNs exceptionally well-suited for complex
--- PAGE 258 ---
tasks such as speech recognition, natural language
processing, and other time-series related applications.
To recap, at the core of an RNN is the concept of a hidden
network state, often referred to simply as the “state.” This
state acts as the network’s memory, theoretically holding all
necessary past information to make future predictions. In a
typical RNN, the hidden state at any sequence index ,
denoted by , is updated based on the previous state
and the current input , according to a function . The
output at each timestep depends on the current state
using a typical nonlinear function ,
(5.7)
Here, and are typical nonlinear neural network layers
that are independent of the specific index location .
Consequently, RNNs effectively employ parameter sharing
across the sequence.
This recursive nature allows RNNs to handle variable input
lengths and provides them with the theoretical capacity to
manage an infinite window of context, which is ideal for
generating coherent and contextually rich sequences over
time.
However, the practical application of RNNs is often
challenged by issues related to their deep and recursive
structure. Notably, the training of RNNs can be subject to
the phenomena of vanishing and exploding gradients. These
occur when the gradient signals, essential for learning
through backpropagation, diminish to insignificant levels
(vanish) or grow too large (explode) as they are propagated
back through each “timestep” in the sequence. Such issues
can severely limit the RNN’s ability to learn long-term
dependencies within the data affecting the overall efficacy of
the model in real-world applications.
--- PAGE 259 ---
In generative tasks, RNNs operate by predicting the next
item in a sequence based on the history it has processed,
with each output dependent on the preceding computational
state. For example, when trained on specific datasets like the
works of Shakespeare or encoded Wikipedia text, RNNs can
generate text that mimics the style of the training data,
capturing nuances such as punctuation, grammar, and even
the specific formatting of text.
In the accompanying notebook [RNN Notebook], we
demonstrate an experiment using RNNs to forecast price
movements and returns of the S&P 500.
5.3.4.1 Practical Considerations and Limitations.
While theoretically capable of handling sequences of
arbitrary length and complexity, RNNs in practice face
significant operational challenges:
Training Speed: Training RNNs is slow due to the
sequential nature of their computations, which prevents
parallel processing. Each step depends on the completion
of the previous step, leading to longer training times.
Gradient Issues: The training of RNNs is notoriously
difficult due to vanishing and exploding gradient
problems, which can severely impact learning
effectiveness. Techniques like Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM) units have been developed to mitigate these
issues but do not entirely eliminate them.
Memory Requirements: Due to their recursive nature,
RNNs often require substantial memory for training, as
they need to maintain information across many time
steps.
--- PAGE 260 ---
5.3.5 Transformers
Transformer models have revolutionized both industry and
academia in recent years. Since their introduction in the
highly influential paper Attention Is All You Need by Vaswani
et al. (2023), they have been successfully applied to a wide
range of data types, including text, audio, time series, image,
and video. As autoregressive models, Transformers offer
several advantages over traditional RNNs. One of the most
significant is their ease of training and the ability to leverage
parallelization, which accelerates both training and
inference. Additionally, Transformers mitigate issues such as
vanishing and exploding gradients, which are more prevalent
in earlier models like RNNs and LSTMs.
In this section, we will explore the Transformer architecture
in detail, breaking down its core components. By the end of
this section, we will have covered all the essential building
blocks necessary to implement two of the most influential
Transformer models: BERT, introduced by (Devlin et al.
2019) and developed by Google, and GPT, introduced by
Radford et al. (2018) and developed by OpenAI. BERT, which
stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers, revolutionized natural language processing,
redefining how both industry and academia tackle a wide
range of NLP tasks. Similarly, the GPT family of models
(Generative Pre-trained Transformers) by OpenAI has been
groundbreaking, pushing the boundaries of what’s possible
with language generation and understanding.
For clarity of exposition, let’s focus on text data, as it makes
these models easier to understand. Keep in mind, however,
that the same framework may be applicable to numerical
time series, as both text and time series are considered
“sequences.” We will elaborate on this point further in
Section 5.3.6. We will briefly cover the essential steps
involved in a typical preprocessing pipeline for Natural
Language Processing (NLP) applications, providing just
--- PAGE 261 ---
enough information to understand Transformers. To do this,
we will use a combination of code snippets and mathematical
notation to illustrate how these models work.
5.3.5.1 Attention Mechanism.
To understand the concept of attention, let’s consider the
following two sentences:
The startup achieved a new round of funding to expand
operations.
He invited his friends for another round of drinks at the
bar.
In the first sentence, the word “round” refers to a phase of
funding for a company, while in the second sentence, it refers
to a sequence of drinks being ordered. Intuitively, these
different meanings suggest that the word “round” should be
represented by different vectors, also known as vector
embeddings—or simply embeddings in the NLP literature—
depending on the context.
However, in the initial steps of the NLP pipeline—when raw
text is transformed into token embeddings—the model
assigns the same vector representation to the words “round”
in both sentences, regardless of the context. This is because
token embeddings, at this point, are context-independent
and rely solely on the token ID assigned to the word.
The NLP Pipeline: From Raw Data to Token Embeddings:
1. Tokenization: The first step in modern NLP pipelines
involves converting raw text into smaller units called
tokens. Tokens can be full words, subwords, or even
characters, depending on the tokenizer. Each token is
mapped to a unique token ID.
--- PAGE 262 ---
2. Token Embeddings: The model assigns an initial
embedding to each token based on the token ID. At this
stage, the embeddings are purely context-independent
—the same word will always have the same embedding,
regardless of the surrounding text.
To illustrate this, we will use the Hugging Face
(https://huggingface.co) transformers python library, which
simplifies working with Transformer models like BERT. In the
following code, we examine the tokenization process:
--- PAGE 263 ---
from transformers import BertTokenizer, BertModel
import torch
# Initialize BERT tokenizer and model
model_ckpt = 'bert-base-uncased'
tokenizer = BertTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_ckpt)
model = BertModel.from_pretrained(model_ckpt)
# Two sentences with different meanings for "round"
sentence_1 = "The startup achieved a new round of fundi
ng to expand operations."
sentence_2 = "He invited his friends for another round
of drinks at the bar."
# Tokenize the sentences
inputs_1 = tokenizer(sentence_1, return_tensors='pt')
inputs_2 = tokenizer(sentence_2, return_tensors='pt')
# Get the token ID for "round"
token_id = tokenizer.convert_tokens_to_ids('round')
print(f"Token ID of word round: {token_id}")
# Print token IDs to show tokenization process
print("Token ids for sentence 1:", inputs_1.input_ids)
print("Token ids for sentence 2:", inputs_2.input_ids)
# Access the token embeddings directly from BERT's embe
dding matrix
# The embedding matrix is model.embeddings.word_embeddi
ngs
token_embedding_matrix = model.embeddings.word_embeddin
gs.weight
# Extract the token embedding for "round"
token_embedding_matrix[token_id]
# Print results to verify that token embeddings are ide
ntical
--- PAGE 264 ---
print(f"Token embedding for 'round': {token_embedding_f
or_round_1[:5]}...")
# First 5 vavlues
>>>
Token ID of word round: 2461
Token ids for sentence 1: tensor([[
101, 1996, 22752, 4719,
1037, 2047, 2461, 1997,
4804, 2000, 7818, 3136,
1012, 102]])
Token ids for sentence 2: tensor([[
101, 2002, 4778, 2010,
2814, 2005, 2178, 2461,
1997, 8974, 2012, 1996,
3347, 1012, 102]])
Here, the Token ID for the word “round” corresponds to the
ID 2461, which is located at position 6 and position 7 (0-
indexed) in inputs_1.input_ids for sentence 1 and
inputs_2.input_ids for sentence 2, respectively.
To determine the token embeddings assigned to the word
“round” let’s access the token embedding matrix of BERT:
--- PAGE 265 ---
# Access the token embeddings directly from BERT's embe
dding matrix
# The embedding matrix is model.embeddings.word_embeddi
ngs
token_embedding_matrix = model.embeddings.word_embeddin
gs.weight
# Extract the token embedding for "round"
token_embedding_for_round = token_embedding_matrix[toke
n_id]
print(f"Embedding matrix size: {token_embedding_matrix.
size()}")
>>>
Embedding matrix size: torch.Size([30522, 768])
print(f"Token embedding for 'round': {token_embedding_f
or_round[:5]}...")
>>
Token embedding for
'round': tensor([ 0.0109, 0.0577,
0.0310, -0.0615, 0.0571], grad_fn=<SliceBackward0>)...
The embedding matrix size for the BERT model is
torch.Size([30522, 768]), meaning that each token ID is
mapped to a 768-dimensional vector representation, and the
vocabulary—the number of unique tokens for this specific
model—consists of 30,522 tokens. More details about how
these embedding representations are created and learned
will be provided later. Additionally, more information about
this process and the typical NLP pipeline can be found in the
Hugging Face tutorial, located in the chapter 10 folder of the
book repository.
The purpose of the attention mechanism is to refine the
representation of each word in a sentence, making it more
context-dependent. After applying attention, we obtain a
more refined embedding that captures the context in which
--- PAGE 266 ---
the word appears. The importance of the attention
mechanism is so profound that the authors of the influential
paper “Attention Is All You Need” (Vaswani et al., 2023)
emphasized it in the very title. But how exactly does attention
work to refine these embeddings?
Before diving into the mathematical details, let’s explore
some insightful visualizations using BertViz, a tool introduced
by Vig (2019), which helps us understand how models like
BERT, GPT2, or T5 update word representation through
attention. This visualization will help us to grasp the concept
before looking at the equations.
Most attention mechanisms refine embeddings by computing
a linear combination of all input embedding using specific
“attention weights.” The attention mechanism makes these
“attention weights” or “attention scores” dependent on the
input, allowing the model to create context-dependent
representations. To clarify this concept, we will use BertViz
to see how BERT assign attention weights across different
words in a sentence.
In the visualizations generated by the following code, namely
Figures 5.6a and b, it is displayed the attention scores for
two input sentences:
--- PAGE 268 ---
Figure 5.6 Visualizing attention.
--- PAGE 269 ---
from transformers import AutoTokenizer
from transformers import AutoModel
from bertviz import head_view
model_ckpt = "bert-base-uncased"
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(model_ckpt)
model = AutoModel.from_pretrained(model_ckpt, output_at
tentions=True)
sentence_a = 'The startup achieved a new round of fundi
ng to expand operations'
sentence_b = 'He invited his friends for another round
of drinks at the bar'
viz_inputs = tokenizer(sentence_a, sentence_b, return_
tensors='pt')
attention = model(**viz_inputs).attentions
sentence_b_start = (viz_inputs.token_type_ids == 0).sum
(dim=1)
tokens = tokenizer.convert_ids_to_tokens(viz_inputs.inp
ut_ids[0])
head_view(attention, tokens, sentence_b_start, heads=
[8])
Here, we instructed BERT to process the two input
sequences simultaneously. Both sentences are shown in the
left and right column, separated by the special [SEP] token.
In these figures, the right column represents the initial input
embeddings, while the left column shows the output
embeddings after applying the attention mechanism.
Although the visualizations do not show the final word
embeddings, they display the attention scores between
words. By selecting any word in the left column, highlighted
with a gray background, we can see lines connecting this
word to all words in the right column. The intensity of each
line represents the magnitude of the attention score, ranging
from 0 to 1, indicating how much influence each word in the
right column has on the selected word in the left column.
--- PAGE 270 ---
Let’s look at Figure 5.6a, where we focus on the word round
in the first sentence, “The startup achieved a new round of
funding to expand operations.” The visualization shows that
the words “funding,” “operations,” “startup,” and “achieved”
have the highest attention scores, contributing the most to
refining the representation of “round.” Notably, none of the
words from the second sentence are considered important in
updating this specific representation.
On the other hand, in Figure 5.6b, we select the word round
from the second sentence, “He invited his friends for another
round of drinks at the bar.” In this context, the words
“drinks,” “friends,” and “invited” are most significant in
updating the representation of “round.” Similarly, no
significant attention is assigned to words from the first
sentence.
These visualizations illustrate how attention helps the model
focus on relevant parts of the context when refining word
representations. Now, let’s see how this attention update is
computed.
If we are dealing with a stock’s returns series instead, we
might imagine that a return at time may depend
significantly on some past return that was
particularly significant, perhaps because there was an
earnings announcement or economic news at (Guijarro-
Ordonez et al., 2021).
Now, let’s see how this attention update is already computed.
Let’s say we have some embedding representation for each
token in the input sequence, denoted as , each
of dimension . (In the case of a returns series, each
might be an embedding representation of the stock returns at
time in a portfolio.) As mentioned, most attention
mechanisms create refined embeddings by computing a
linear combination of all input embeddings, such as the in
our example, which, as we will see next, are linear
combinations of the input embeddings . To find a refined
--- PAGE 271 ---
representation for each input vector, we compute a weighted
sum. For example, the refined representation, or hidden
representation, for is computed as:
(5.8)
where is the attention vector, also known
as attention scores or attention weights, used to compute .
Similarly, for the refined representation or hidden
representation of the third vector, we have:
(5.9)
In general, the refined representation for the -th input is:
(5.10)
This can be represented in matrix form as:
--- PAGE 272 ---
(5.11)
where is the matrix of attention weights. In short, we
update each token through a linear combination of all other
tokens. In a financial time-series application for forecasting
returns, to avoid look-ahead bias, we should only include past
returns when calculating the current return. This approach is
known as causal masked attention in NLP terminology. The
question now is, how do we determine this matrix ? Well,
these weights are learned from data during training.
Before explaining how the attention matrix is computed, let’s
clarify the difference between hard attention and soft
attention.
Hard Attention: Each attention vector satisfies the
property , meaning it is a one-hot vector where
only one component is 1 and the rest are 0. This means
the new representation will be exactly one of the input
vectors.
Soft Attention: Each attention vector satisfies
, meaning the new representation is a weighted
combination of the input vectors.
Although there are several methods to compute the attention
matrix and the matrix of embedding vectors , in this book,
we will focus on the most well-known approach, Scaled Dot-
Product Attention, as introduced in the influential paper by
Vaswani et al. (2023).
--- PAGE 273 ---
5.3.5.2 Scaled Dot-Product Attention.
In Scaled Dot-Product Attention, the attention scores are
computed as:
(5.12)
and so, the hidden representation is computed as:
(5.13)
The operations of the Scaled Dot-Product Attention are
illustrated in Figure 5.7, serving as a useful reference for
understanding the process.
Figure 5.7 Scaled Dot-Product Attention. Figure 2
(left) from Vaswani et al. (2023).
Let’s break down the equation for Scaled Dot-Product
Attention.
--- PAGE 274 ---
(Query Matrix): This matrix is computed from the
input embeddings as . For now, consider the
input embeddings as those generated from the basic
NLP pipeline explained earlier, where they are assigned
based on token ID. In Section 5.3.5.4, we will discuss how
additional sequence information is incorporated into the
token embeddings to fully create . The query matrix
contains row vectors, each representing a query vector
of dimension . The matrix is a learnable
parameter of size .
(Key matrix): Similarly, the Key matrix is computed as
. Each row of corresponds to a key vector
of dimension . The matrix is also learnable
parameter of size .
(Value matrix). The Value matrix is computed as
. It contains row vectors, each representing
a value vector of dimension . The matrix is a
learnable parameter of size .
For Scaled Dot-Product Attention to work, the dimensions
and must match, and a common choice is .
The attention mechanism used here is a soft-attention
mechanism, enforced by applying the softmax function to
ensure that the rows of sum to 1. The scaling factor
was introduced by the authors of the Attention Is All You
Need paper to prevent the argument of the softmax from
becoming too large, thereby avoiding regions of the function
with very small gradients (Vaswani et al., 2023).
To better understand Scaled Dot-Product Attention, let’s
focus on the computation of the unnormalized attention
scores:
--- PAGE 275 ---
(5.14)
We can call this matrix the unnormalized attention scores.
For every input vector in the sequence , we
compute its query representation , its key
representation , and its value representation
, and using this information, we compute the
attention weights.
For example, to compute the attention weights needed to
the hidden representation of , we take the dot product
of its query vector with the key vectors in the sequence:
(5.15)
The terminology and concepts used in the Attention Is All You
Need paper by Vaswani et al. (2023) draw from information
retrieval, where we have a database or key-value store
indexed by keys with corresponding values. To retrieve a
value, we compute the similarity between a query and all the
keys in the database. The retrieved value can be the one with
the maximum score or a weighted sum of values based on
these scores, which is the essence of self-attention.
After computing the unnormalized attention scores , we
normalize them using the softmax function
(5.16)
Now, we can compute the hidden representation by taking
a linear combination of all the values in the key-value store,
following the same key-store analogy:
--- PAGE 276 ---
(5.17)
This produces a refined representation for each input ,
incorporating information about the whole sequence.
The combination of Scaled Dot-Product Attention with the
three linear transformations for the query, key, and value
vectors is what’s known as an Attention Head in Transformer
models. (Multiple heads can be used to capture different
relationships between words, as will be explained later.)
Let’s implement this concept in PyTorch to gain a better
understanding. The following implementation is adapted from
the book Natural Language Processing with Transformers, by
Tunstall et al. (2022).
To implement Scaled Dot-Product Attention, we need to pass
in the query, key, and value matrices. Here is a simple
implementation of the function in PyTorch:
import torch
from math import sqrt
import torch.nn.functional as F
def scaled_dot_product_attention(query, key, value):
dim_k = query.size(-1)
unnormalised_scores = torch.bmm(query, key.transpose
(1, 2)) / sqrt(dim_k)
scores = F.softmax(unnormalised_scores, dim=-1)
return torch.bmm(scores, value)
In this function:
--- PAGE 277 ---
We use torch.bmm for batch matrix multiplication, which
efficiently handles the batch dimension during
computation.
The scores are scaled by dividing by the square root of
the dimension of the key vectors (sqrt(dim_k)) to
stabilize the dot products and prevent them from
becoming too large.
We apply the softmax function to the scores to obtain
attention weights and then use these weights to compute
a weighted sum of the value vectors.
Next, we’ll implement the full attention head. This requires
creating the matrices , , and for the key, query,
and value transformations, respectively. Each of these
matrices transforms the input embeddings into the required
dimensions query, key, and value dimensional spaces.
We define these matrices in the following AttentionHead
class. For simplicity, we assume
, which we refer to as head_dim
in the code:
--- PAGE 278 ---
from torch import nn
class AttentionHead(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, embed_dim, head_dim):
super().__init__()
self.q = nn.Linear(embed_dim, head_dim)
self.k = nn.Linear(embed_dim, head_dim)
self.v = nn.Linear(embed_dim, head_dim)
def forward(self, hidden_state):
attn_outputs = scaled_dot_product_attention(
self.q(hidden_state),
self.k(hidden_state),
self.v(hidden_state)
)
return attn_outputs
In this implementation:
The __init__ method initializes three linear
transformations for the query, key, and value matrices.
These transformations project the input embeddings into
the head_dim dimensional space.
In the forward method, the hidden states are passed
through the linear transformations to obtain the query,
key, and value matrices.
The scaled_dot_product_attention function is called with
these matrices to compute the attention outputs.
5.3.5.3 From Self-attention to Transformers.
In this section, we will explain how to transition from the self-
attention mechanism discussed earlier to the complete
Transformer architecture introduced in the influential paper
by Vaswani et al. (2023). The architecture of the Transformer
model can be visualized in Figure 5.8.
--- PAGE 280 ---
Figure 5.8 The Transformer encoder-decoder
architecture, developed for machine translation,
processes an input sequence—such as a sentence in
the source language—into continuous representations
via the encoder. The decoder then generates the
translated output sequence, producing one token at a
time. Input embeddings correspond to the
representation of the source language, while output
embeddings correspond to the representation of the
target language. The output embeddings are offset by
one position to ensure that the prediction for position
depends only on the known outputs at positions less
than . Figure 1 from Vaswani et al. (2023).
The Transformer model was originally developed for machine
translation tasks, which traditionally follow an encoder-
decoder structure. The role of the encoder is to map the
input sequence—such as the sentence in the source language
—into a sequence of hidden representations. These hidden
representations are then used by the decoder to generate the
translated output sequence, one token at a time. This process
is autoregressive, meaning the decoder generates each token
by considering the previously generated tokens as additional
inputs. In the Transformer architecture, the encoder is
depicted on the left side of Figure 5.8, while the decoder is
shown on the right.
As seen in the figure, we need several components for
building the complete Transformer model, including Input
Embeddings, Multi-Head Attention, and Feed-Forward
blocks. These components are fundamental to both the
encoder and decoder sections. To build a comprehensive
understanding of the Transformer model, we will explore
each of these components in details by providing a code
implementation of the encoder section.
--- PAGE 281 ---
Additionally, it’s important to note that self-attention allows
the model to attend to all tokens simultaneously, which is not
ideal for tasks such as sequence generation, where the model
needs to distinguish between past and future tokens, such as
in financial time series. To address this, the self-attention
mechanism can be modified to create what is known as
causal masked self-attention, which ensures that each token
only attends to previous tokens in the sequence. This
modification preserves the causal structure needed for
generating text in an autoregressive manner.
5.3.5.4 Positional Encodings.
Positional encoding enables self-attention to consider the
order of tokens in the sequence, addressing a limitation of
the self-attention mechanism, which does not account for
positional information in the sequence.
Positional encodings are combined to token embeddings so
that the self-attention mechanism can incorporate the order
of tokens in the sequence. These encodings can be created
using a fixed mathematical formula or learned from data.
Common methods for integrating token embeddings with
positional encodings include concatenation and addition. The
most widely used approach is to add the positional encodings
to the token embeddings directly. It’s important to note that
positional encodings depend only on the position within the
sequence.
With positional encodings, the input to the AttentionHead is
no longer just token embeddings, but the addition of token
embeddings and positional information.
The following code implements a class that creates both
token and positional embeddings and adds them together.
--- PAGE 282 ---
class Embeddings(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, config):
super().__init__()
self.token_embeddings = nn.Embedding(config.voca
b_size,
config.hidd
en_size)
self.position_embeddings=
nn.Embedding(config.max_position_embeddings,
config.h
idden_size)
self.layer_norm = nn.LayerNorm(config.hidden_siz
e, eps=1e-12)
self.dropout = nn.Dropout()
def forward(self, input_ids):
# Create position IDs for input sequence
seq_length = input_ids.size(1)
position_ids = torch.arange(seq_length,
dtype=torch.long).unsqueeze(0)
# Create token and position embeddings
token_embeddings = self.token_embeddings(input_i
ds)
position_embeddings = self.position_embeddings(p
osition_ids)
# Combine token and position embeddings
embeddings = token_embeddings + position_embeddi
ngs
embeddings = self.layer_norm(embeddings)
embeddings = self.dropout(embeddings)
return embeddings
In this class:
--- PAGE 283 ---
The __init__ method creates both token and position
embeddings, as well as a layer normalization and dropout
layer.
The forward method combines token and position
embeddings by addition, normalizes them, and applies
dropout.
5.3.5.5 Multi-headed Attention.
The self-attention mechanism involves a single set of
projections for generating the query, key, and value
representations. In practice, the authors in Vaswani et al.
(2023) found it beneficial to use multiple sets of these
transformations, known as attention heads. These heads are
computed in parallel and then combined by concatenation,
which joins the vectors end-to-end, to create a richer
representation of the input, see Figure 5.9 for a schematic
representation of this process. Multi-head attention enables
the model to focus simultaneously on different aspects of the
input.
--- PAGE 284 ---
Figure 5.9 Multi-head Attention. Figure 2 (right) from
Vaswani et al. (2023).
Multi-head attention allows for different dimensions for the
query, key, and value projections. However, in practice, each
attention head typically has the same dimension. In addition
to the dimensions of these projection matrices, we must
specify the number of attention heads. For example, in the
original Transformer architecture, the input embedding
dimension is 512, and there are 8 attention heads. This
configuration sets the dimension for each head as
.
An implementation of the following MultiHeadAttention class
demonstrates this concept:
--- PAGE 285 ---
class MultiHeadAttention(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, config):
super().__init__()
embed_dim = config.hidden_size
num_heads = config.num_attention_heads
head_dim = embed_dim // num_heads
self.heads = nn.ModuleList(
[AttentionHead(embed_dim, head_dim) for
_ in range(num_heads)]
)
self.output_linear = nn.Linear(embed_dim, embed_
dim)
def forward(self, hidden_state):
x = torch.cat([h(hidden_state) for h in
self.heads], dim=-1)
x = self.output_linear(x)
return x
In this implementation:
The __init__ method creates multiple attention heads
using the AttentionHead class, based on the specified
number of heads.
The forward computes attention heads outputs and
concatenate them, which is them passed through a final
linear layer.
5.3.5.6 The Feed-forward Layer.
The feed-forward layer adds nonlinearity to the model and is
applied to the output of the multi-head attention layer. It
consists of two linear transformations with a nonlinear
activation function in between, as shown here:
--- PAGE 286 ---
class FeedForward(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, config):
super().__init__()
self.linear_1 = nn.Linear(config.hidden_size, co
nfig.intermediate_size)
self.linear_2 = nn.Linear(config.intermediate_si
ze, config.hidden_size)
self.gelu = nn.GELU()
self.dropout = nn.Dropout(config.hidden_dropout_
prob)
def forward(self, x):
x = self.linear_1(x)
x = self.gelu(x)
x = self.linear_2(x)
x = self.dropout(x)
return x
This class performs the following steps:
The __init__ method defines two linear layers, a GELU
activation function, and dropout for regularization.
The forward method applies the first linear
transformation, the GELU activation, the second linear
transformation, and finally dropout before returning the
output.
In the original paper, the dimensionality of the input and
output is 512, referred in the code as hidden_size, while the
inner layer has a dimensionality of 2048, referred in the code
as intermediate_size.
The multi-head attention, feed-forward layers, and positional
encodings together form the building blocks of the
Transformer model. They enable the model to capture
--- PAGE 287 ---
complex dependencies and learn rich representations from
the input data.
5.3.5.7 Add and Norm Blocks.
As depicted in Figure 5.8, there are Add & Norm blocks
integrated into the Transformer architecture.
These blocks perform two key operations: Add, which applies
a residual connection (i.e., adding a layer’s input to its output
to improve gradient flow and facilitate training), and Norm,
which involves layer normalization (see Goodfellow et al.,
2016, for more details). As shown in the figure, the authors
use a residual connection around both Multi-head Attention
and feed-forward blocks.
5.3.5.8 The Transformer Encoder Layer.
Now that we’ve covered the core components of the
Transformer architecture, we are ready to implement the
Transformer encoder layer, as shown in the left of Figure 5.8.
The Encoder layer, also known as Encoder block, consists of
an embedding layer, a multi-head attention mechanism, and a
feed-forward network. As described, batch normalization and
residual connections are also included.
Following is the implementation of the
TransformerEncoderLayer, incorporating layer normalization
and skip connections for better gradient flow:
--- PAGE 288 ---
class TransformerEncoderLayer(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, config):
super().__init__()
self.layer_norm_1 = nn.LayerNorm(config.hidden_s
ize)
self.layer_norm_2 = nn.LayerNorm(config.hidden_s
ize)
self.attention = MultiHeadAttention(config)
self.feed_forward = FeedForward(config)
def forward(self, x):
# Apply layer normalization and then copy input
into query, key, value
hidden_state = self.layer_norm_1(x)
# Apply attention with a skip connection
x = x + self.attention(hidden_state)
# Apply feed-
forward layer with a skip connection
x = x + self.feed_forward(self.layer_norm_2(x))
return x
A note on regularization: As described by the authors of the
Transformers paper, and as you may have noticed in the code
implementation, dropout (see Chapter 3) is used for
regularization. Dropout is applied around the Add & Norm
blocks, as well as to the sum of the embeddings and
positional encodings in both the encoder and decoder stacks
(Vaswani et al., 2023).
5.3.5.9 The Complete Transformer Encoder.
The Transformer model is constructed by stacking multiple
TransformerEncoderLayer modules. Each layer processes the
input embeddings and refines them further, allowing the
model to learn complex relationships within the data.
--- PAGE 289 ---
Here’s how we can implement the complete Transformer
encoder:
class TransformerEncoder(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, config):
super().__init__()
self.embeddings = Embeddings(config)
self.layers = nn.ModuleList([TransformerEncoderL
ayer(config)
for _ in
range(config.num_hidden_layers)])
def forward(self, x):
x = self.embeddings(x)
for layer in self.layers:
x = layer(x)
return x
5.3.5.10 Model Objective.
Now that we have defined the Transformer encoder
architecture, the next question is: What tasks can we solve
with it? how do we structure the model’s output for solving
these tasks and train the model?
The typical approach is to use the Transformer encoder
model as the core body of our model and attach either a
decoder, as in language translation tasks, or a specific head
that is suited to the task at hand. For instance, for a
classification task, we can attach a specific head, a network
layer that takes the output of the Transformer and generates
a probability distribution over the possible classes. This
allows us to use an optimization algorithm to find the model
parameters that best explain the relationship between inputs
and targets in our dataset.
--- PAGE 290 ---
Let’s consider a few examples to understand this concept
better:
Sentiment Analysis: For this task, we would use a
classification head that processes the output of the
Transformer model and predicts the sentiment (for
example, positive, negative, or neutral) of a given input
text. The model learns to associate specific patterns in
the text with specific sentiments.
Language Modeling: The BERT model, introduced by
(Devlin et al. 2019), is a good example of this approach.
BERT stands for Bidirectional Encoder Representations
from Transformers and uses the Transformer encoder
architecture. One of BERT’s primary training objectives
is the Masked Language Model (MLM) task, where
certain words in a sentence are randomly masked, and
the model is trained to predict these missing words.
Specifically, 15% of the words in a sentence are masked.
Of these, 80% are replaced with the [MASK] token, 10%
remain unchanged, and the final 10% are substituted
with a random word. To solve this task, we would use a
classification head that processes the output of the
Transformer and generates a probability distribution over
the input’s vocabulary.
To adapt the Transformer encoder for a classification task
like sentiment analysis, we add a classification head on top of
the encoder. As an example, the head implemented here
consists of a dropout layer followed by a fully connected layer
that maps the encoded representation to the desired number
of labels:
--- PAGE 291 ---
class TransformerForSequenceClassification(nn.Module):
def __init__(self, config):
super().__init__()
self.encoder = TransformerEncoder(config)
self.dropout = nn.Dropout(config.hidden_dropout_
prob)
self.classifier = nn.Linear(config.hidden_size,
config.num_labels)
def forward(self, x):
x = self.encoder(x)
[:, 0, :] # select hidden state of [CLS] token
x = self.dropout(x)
x = self.classifier(x)
return x
self.encoder: This is the Transformer encoder that
processes the input sequence.
self.dropout: This layer is used to prevent overfitting
during training.
self.classifier: This fully connected layer maps the
encoder’s output to the desired number of classes.
As just shown, the classification model leverages the
Transformer encoder to create powerful representations of
the input text. By attaching a classification head, we can
train this model for various tasks, such as sentiment analysis,
language modeling, question answering, and more. However,
the typical way these models are trained to solve downstream
tasks, such as sentiment analysis, involves a two-step training
process. First, in the pre-training phase, the Transformer
encoder is trained on a language modeling task. Then, in the
second step, known as fine-tuning, the model is further
trained on a specific dataset related to the task, and a
classification or regression head is added to solve specific
--- PAGE 292 ---
problems. More details on this process, along with practical
examples, can be found in Chapters 9 and 10.
In fact, the structure described here is essentially an
implementation of the BERT model, which has become a
foundational tool for many NLP applications due to its
versatility and powerful performance across a wide range of
tasks.
For complementary purposes, the accompanying notebook
[DecoderOnly Transformers—Notebook] showcases an
implementation of a decoder-only transformer model,
specifically GPT, to complement the discussion of decoder-
only transformers presented here.
5.3.6 From NLP Transformer to the Time-series
Transformers
Given the great success of Transformer models in capturing
long-range dependencies in sequential data—such as text,
audio, and video—it is natural to wonder if they can also be
applied to time-series applications, as time-series data, like
text, is inherently sequential.
Transformers are known for several advantages, which we
will discuss in more detail in Chapter 10. To mention a few,
these models improve their performance in NLP tasks as
model size, training data volume, and training time increase
(see Kaplan et al., 2020). They are also highly parallelizable
and adaptable for multiple downstream tasks, as
demonstrated by Devlin et al. (2019). These qualities are
motivating the industry to explore whether Transformers can
achieve a similar level of success in modeling time-series
problems.
For language modeling tasks, Transformers are trained with
the objective of predicting the next token in a sequence
based on the previous tokens. This is conceptually similar to
--- PAGE 293 ---
the time-series forecasting task, where we want to predict
the next element of the series based on previous values, or
perform what is called a “one-step-ahead forecast.” In time-
series terminology, we could say that the language modeling
task is akin to forecasting a discrete time series where the
elements in the sequence take values from a finite
vocabulary, with a time horizon of one. Given this similarity
in objectives, we might wonder what modifications are
needed to apply Transformers to time series.
As hinted, one key difference is that most of the time, the
values in a time series are unbounded, continuous quantities,
unlike in a text sequence, where elements (called tokens)
take values from a finite vocabulary. A straightforward idea
for adapting Transformers to time-series data is to convert
the continuous values of the series into a finite set of values,
or tokens, drawing an analogy to text applications, similar to
how words are represented in language tasks. This approach
is taken in Chronos: Learning the Language of Time Series
(Ansari et al., 2024).
5.3.6.1 Discretizing Time-series Data: The Chronos
Approach.
In the paper Chronos: Learning the Language of Time Series
(Ansari et al., 2024), the authors propose an approach for
using Transformers on time-series data by tokenizing time-
series values. This is achieved by first normalizing and then
quantizing the time series, transforming continuous values
into discrete “tokens” that can be processed by standard
Transformer architectures.
1. Normalization: Each time series is normalized to mitigate
scaling differences between series and improve model
optimization. The authors use mean scaling, in which
each series is normalized by the mean absolute historical
--- PAGE 294 ---
value within the “historical context”—the number of
inputs to the Transformer.
2. Quantization: The normalized values are then quantized
into a fixed number of bins, converting continuous values
into a discrete set of values, or tokens. These discrete
tokens represent the time series in a way similar to how
text is represented by a sequence of tokens.
Once each value has been tokenized, token embeddings
and positional embeddings are created in the same way as
for language modeling tasks and combined by addition to
form the input embeddings for the Transformer. At inference
time, since the model outputs tokens, a process of
dequantization and denormalization is applied to convert
discrete token predictions back into continuous values.
This method allows the use of standard Transformer
architectures, such as T5 (Raffel et al., 2020; encoder-
decoder) and GPT-2 (Radford et al., 2019; decoder-only),
without architectural modifications. The authors of Chronos
demonstrated that this approach is effective across a wide
range of time-series data, achieving strong results on out-of-
sample data. To train their models, the authors compiled
time-series data from various domains, including retail,
energy, finance, healthcare, and climate science, enhancing
generalization by incorporating synthetic data generated
through data augmentation techniques.
In the accompanying notebook [Chronos Notebook], we
explore the use of Chronos on the Exchange Rate dataset,
which contains daily exchange rates for currencies of eight
countries (Australia, United Kingdom, Canada, Switzerland,
China, Japan, New Zealand, and Singapore) from 1990 to
2016 (Exchange Rate data). Part of this data was used to
train Chronos, and according to the references provided in
their repository and paper, we evaluate Chronos’s
--- PAGE 295 ---
performance on the unseen part of the data, highlight some
of its limitations, and compare it with some simple baselines.
5.3.6.2 Continuous Input for Transformers: The Lag-
Llama Approach.
An alternative approach to discretizing the time series is to
treat the data as it is, using continuous values so that the
network takes continuous inputs and outputs continuous
values. This approach not only requires preprocessing the
input to create “token embeddings,” but also adjustments to
the output, as we are now solving a regression task rather
than a classification task, as in language modeling. This is
the approach taken in the paper Lag-Llama: Towards
Foundation Models for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting
(Rasul et al., 2024).
In this work, the authors adapt the Llama model (Touvron et
al., 2023), a decoder-only Transformer architecture, to
output continuous values rather than discrete tokens by
introducing a final layer that predicts the parameters of
continuous distributions, specifically a t-distribution, rather
than the parameters of a categorical distribution typical in
multiclass classification problems.
The modifications in Lag-Llama include the following:
1. Probabilistic continuous output layer: Instead of
predicting the parameters of a categorical distribution
that allocates probability mass over a finite vocabulary of
tokens, Lag-Llama outputs the parameters of a t-
distribution, allowing the model to make probabilistic
forecasts over continuous values.
2. Lagged and date-time features: In addition to using the
current time step, Lag-Llama incorporates lagged
features—previous values at various intervals (e.g.,
quarterly, monthly, weekly)—to enrich the input and
--- PAGE 296 ---
capture seasonality and periodic patterns. The model also
includes features such as the hour, day, and month, etc.,
derived from the timestamp, which provide additional
contextual information about each time point. The
authors also include summary statistics of the series to
provide additional context.
3. Normalization and outlier control: Lag-Llama normalizes
each time series and mitigates outliers using the
interquartile range (IQR).
By enriching the current input with lagged and date-time
features, the authors provide the Llama model with more
contextual information to capture long-term and short-term
dependencies effectively. In our experience with forecasting
tasks involving large datasets of multivariate time series, this
type of feature engineering helps models capture seasonal
characteristics and improves forecasting performance.
In the Lag-Llama approach, the current and lagged values of
the series, along with engineered date-time features, are
concatenated into a vector. See Figure 5.10 for an illustration
of how these features are constructed. This vector is then
projected into the model’s “token embedding” space,
creating an analogous “token representation” as in NLP
applications, which serves as the input to the Transformer
model, as shown in Figure 5.11.
--- PAGE 297 ---
Figure 5.10 An illustration showing how the current
and lagged values of the series, combined with
engineered date-time features, are concatenated into
a vector. Each component of the vector represents
past value of (shown in blue), along with
temporal covariates (date-time features) derived from
the timestamp (shown in red). Figure 1 from Rasul et
al. (2024).
--- PAGE 298 ---
Figure 5.11 An illustration showing how the model
input, comprising the time-series value at timestep
with lags, date-time features, and summary
statistics, is projected into the transformer’s “token
embedding” space, creating a “token representation”
similar to NLP applications. Figure 2 from Rasul et al.
(2024).
In the accompanying notebook [Lag-Llama Notebook], we
explore the use of Lag-Llama on the same Exchange Rate
dataset. For Lag-Llama, since this dataset has not been used
for training the model according to the authors, we will
--- PAGE 299 ---
evaluate its “zero-shot” performance. As an additional
exercise, we will fine-tune the model on this dataset and
observe how its performance is affected. Similar to Chronos,
we will highlight some of its limitations and compare its
performance with simple baselines.
5.3.6.2.1 Innovations and Approaches.
The examples of Chronos and Lag-Llama illustrate some of
the most common techniques for adapting Transformer
architectures for time-series applications, which in these
cases required few to no modifications to existing
Transformer architectures. In these cases, much of the work
revolves around techniques for preprocessing time-series
data and enriching contextual information, using methods
such as normalization, quantization, and the addition of
lagged values and datetime features. We also saw how
different preprocessing choices, such as applying
quantization or not, affect how the problem is framed: as a
classification problem (as in Chronos, which requires no
changes to standard Transformer architectures and treats
the problem similarly to text tasks) or as a regression
problem (as in Lag-Llama, where the authors modified the
last layer of the architecture to model a probability
distribution over continuous values).
While these examples showcase a few interesting
adaptations, they are by no means representative of the full
range of approaches that can be applied to improve model
performance. In particular, there are approaches that focus
on improving the space and time complexity of Transformers,
which we have not yet discussed.
Over the past few years, numerous Transformer
architectures for time series have been proposed. To the best
--- PAGE 300 ---
of our knowledge, the main areas of work are around the
following:
1. Input Normalization and Contextual Information: This
area includes scaling time-series data to help model
optimization, applying various normalization techniques,
handling outliers, and quantizing the series. Context can
be enriched by incorporating lagged values or creating
datetime features to capture important seasonal and
calendar effects, or incorporating macroeconomic
indicators, as well as indicators from markets or indices
that are not part of the target time series—some of which
were outlined in Chapter 3, among others. This
information is typically projected to create “token
embeddings,” which serve as inputs to the Transformer.
For example, some models use one-dimensional
convolutional layers as projection layers, as seen in the
Informer architecture (Zhou et al., 2021).
2. Positional Encoding: Transformers are permutation-
invariant by nature, posing a challenge when handling
sequential data like time series. Positional encoding is
crucial to convey order information in NLP tasks and
becomes even more vital for time-series applications,
where the sequence order is essential. Solutions range
from fixed positional encodings, as used in the original
Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2023), to learnable
positional embeddings like the one discussed in Section
5.3.5.4.
3. Attention Layer efficiency: Improving the efficiency of the
attention mechanism is an active area of research,
especially for time-series data, which often involves long
historical sequences and forecasting over extended
horizons. Improving computational complexity of this
layer can help reduce inference latency and help us to
meet the system requirements of specific applications.
Recall from our earlier discussion in Section 5.3.5.2 that
--- PAGE 301 ---
the vanilla Transformer’s attention mechanism (Vaswani
et al., 2023), computes a dot product between each query
and all keys, resulting in a time complexity of for
inputs. To reduce this complexity, several methods
have been proposed. For example, the Informer model
(Zhou et al., 2021) reduces the computational cost of the
attention layer by computing attention for a subset of
“active queries,” rather than for all queries, thus,
achieving a time complexity .
4. New transformers architecture variants: Researchers
have developed architecture variants to account for the
multi-resolution nature of time series. For example, the
Informer architecture down-samples the series by
inserting max-pooling layers between attention blocks
(Zhou et al., 2021). The Pyraformer model (Liu et al.,
2021) introduces a pyramidal attention module that
summarizes features at different resolutions, enabling it
to model temporal dependencies over varying time scales
effectively.
For a more detailed overview of the most well-known
Transformer architectures for time series at the time of
writing, we recommend the excellent resource Transformers
in Time Series: A Survey (Wen et al., 2023). Additionally, for
an application of transformers as building blocks in portfolio
construction, see Cong et al. (2021).
5.4 Model Fitting
Autoregressive models are often referred to as Maximum
Likelihood models, since they primarily rely on Maximum
Likelihood Estimation (MLE) for parameter estimation. All
the models discussed in this chapter use MLE as the main
method for parameter learning. Once we define a model class
parametrized by , denoted as , it becomes essential to
--- PAGE 302 ---
establish a metric that evaluates the model’s ability to
approximate the data probability distribution, denoted as
. Of course, we discussed MLE fitting already in Chapter
3, but here is a new way to think about it.
Considering that our goals include computing probability
densities, determining hidden structures, and generating
new samples, determining a single model scoring metric that
fulfills all these objectives can be challenging. Intuitively, if a
model can closely approximate the distribution , it
should theoretically perform well in the other tasks.
Therefore, our objective is to align the model distribution
as closely as possible with .
To quantify the closeness between two distributions, we use
the Kullback-Leibler divergence, , defined as:
(5.18)
Our goal is to minimize the Kullback-Leibler divergence
between the empirical data distribution and our model’s
distribution:
(5.19)
The term does not depend on and is thus
irrelevant to the optimization process. Hence, the objective
function, cost function, or score to minimize is given by:
(5.20)
Given that we only have access to samples from , the
empirical estimation is:
--- PAGE 303 ---
(5.21)
This formulation corresponds to Maximum Likelihood
Estimation, or minimizing the Negative Log Likelihood, which
aims to increase the probability mass at points present in our
training dataset while assigning lower probabilities to those
that are absent.
To minimize this objective function, the typical optimization
algorithm used is Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD):
(5.22)
Here, represents the loss computed using a batch or
subset of the data, facilitating efficient gradient computation
and model updates.
5.5 Conclusions
As we have explored in this chapter, autoregressive models
are powerful tools for modeling high-dimensional sequences.
We began with classical approaches such as linear AR
models, progressed to RNNs, and concluded with the
groundbreaking Transformers that have reshaped the fields
of NLP, speech, computer vision, and more. However, at the
time of writing, Transformers for time-series applications
have not yet reached the level of performance observed in
other domains such as text and vision tasks.
Adapting Transformers for time series may require further
optimization and empirical work to achieve the same level of
success. Throughout this chapter, we have highlighted points
that could provide pathways for improvement. By addressing
the unique challenges posed by time-series data, future
research and development can help bridge the current
performance gap. Based on findings in the literature, simple
--- PAGE 304 ---
customized solutions, such as solutions based on linear AR
models, can still outperform them, particularly when
forecasting financial time series. However, Transformer
models offer many advantages, and their use depends on
your main objective—whether it is performance, scalability
for handling multiple heterogeneous time series, custom
versus general solutions, or other factors.
When it comes to applications of Transformers for developing
trading strategies, they are powerful tools for preprocessing
alternative data, providing valuable insights for systematic
strategies or discretionary investment managers. As a use
case, in Chapter 9, we will demonstrate how to leverage this
powerful model for processing alternative data and develop
systematic trading strategies.
--- PAGE 305 ---
Chapter 6
Deep Latent Variable Models
In the previous chapter, we discussed how autoregressive
models leverage previous values in a sequence to represent
highly complex, high dimensional probability distributions.
In contrast, latent variable models adopt a distinct
approach to approximating the probability distribution
. Latent variable models do not use previous values in the
sequence as AR models do; instead, they assume the
existence of an unobservable hidden variable that
influences every data point in the dataset.
In this chapter, we focus on models where the knowledge
of the hidden or latent variables partially explains the
observed data. Here, the relationship between the hidden
variables and the observations is not fully deterministic—
we introduce some uncertainty in the modeling step
regarding how the latent variables generate the observed
data. On the other hand, models where the latent variables
completely determine the observed data—where a
deterministic, invertible mapping exists between the
hidden variables and the data—will be the subject of
Chapter 7. These are known as flow models or invertible
models. In Chapter 8, we will introduce another type of
latent variable model: Generative Adversarial Networks
(GANs). Unlike the models discussed here or in the next
chapter, GANs do not explicitly model the probability
distribution of the data.
In this chapter, we focus on models where the
dimensionality of this latent variable is significantly smaller
than that of the observed data. Introducing hidden
variables in our models helps model a high-dimensional
--- PAGE 306 ---
multimodal distribution as the integral of the product of
two simpler distributions. Commonly, these simpler
distributions belong to the exponential family, which
simplifies the overall modeling process while retaining
flexibility in capturing the underlying data structure. The
Hidden Markov Model that we introduced in Chapter 3 is
obviously one simple example of such latent variables
model (where there is some dynamic between the latent
variables), but we shall see that Principal Component
Analysis (PCA) introduced there can also be viewed as an
example of latent variables model. Deep latent variable
models, such as the well-known variational autoencoders
discussed in this chapter, belong to the category of explicit
models that estimate densities approximately, as shown in
Figure 6.1. This chapter will leverage the full machinery of
deep learning to create a much richer variety of these
models.
--- PAGE 307 ---
Figure 6.1 Model taxonomy: variational
autoencoders.
6.1 Introduction
To illustrate the utility of latent variable models, consider
their application in finance, particularly for modeling and
estimating the covariance matrix of multivariate time
series. Covariance matrices are fundamental in finance,
utilized for tasks such as regression analysis, risk
estimation, portfolio optimization, and scenario simulation
through Monte Carlo methods (López de Prado, 2020).
Let’s assume we have a lengthy history of returns from
time series, each representing an asset’s historical returns.
A straightforward approach to modeling these multivariate
time series is to ignore individual time-series serial
correlation and assume a constant covariance across assets
over time. At any time index , the returns could be
modelled as a draw from a constant probability
distribution, for example, , where
--- PAGE 308 ---
represent the return at time index , is the mean return
vector, and is the covariance matrix of returns.
To provide context, consider modeling the daily returns of
the S&P 500 index components, thereby setting the
number of time series to . Here, the simplest
estimator for the covariance matrix would require
computing covariance
values. This large number of parameters can become
problematic if the available daily data are limited.
Another way to think about modeling is to assume it is
influenced by a smaller set of underlying, unobserved
factors that partially explain the observations.
These factors may look similar to traditional multi-factor
models, such as the Fama-French three-factor model we
discussed in Chapter 2, which explains asset returns using
factors like the market, Small Minus Big (SMB), and High
Minus Low (HML) factors. However, a key difference
between these traditional models and the ones we will
explore in this chapter is that, in the traditional case, the
factors are observable—they can be measured, and often,
they can even be traded, providing significant value to
traders. In contrast, the models introduced in this chapter
deal with unobservable factors. These are hidden, or latent,
variables, terms we will use interchangeably in this
chapter, and which are common in the literature.
For instance, Factor Analysis (FA), a type of latent variable
model, decomposes the covariance matrix as
, where is known as the loading matrix, being
the number of factors (a hyperparameter in FA) with
, and is a diagonal matrix. In financial
terminology, we can think of as the systematic
covariance matrix, representing the part of the asset’s
returns variance explained by the factors, and as the
--- PAGE 309 ---
idiosyncratic covariance matrix—the variance of asset’s
returns not explained by the factors. This type of variance
decomposition is particularly useful for risk modeling in
portfolio construction applications, where we might be
interested in reducing the exposure of our strategy to
certain factors or placing an upper limit on systematic
variance, etc. This formulation of variance decomposition
allows constraints like these to be easily incorporated into
the portfolio optimization process.
This method significantly reduces the number of
parameters to estimate, from to ,
from to . For example, if , the
parameter count drops to 5,010 compared to 125,250—a
25-fold reduction. Because this modeling approach assumes
that observations are explained by a smaller set of factors,
the covariance matrix is inherently low rank. This not only
reduces the number of parameters to estimate but also
decreases the memory required to store the covariance
matrix compared to simpler modeling approaches.
What is fascinating about latent variable models is that,
even though the factors are not directly observed, by
making probabilistic assumptions about how they behave,
we can infer their values and estimate the associated model
parameters. Hamlet remembers when he first studied these
kinds of models; I was absolutely fascinated by them. In the
context of FA, things get even more interesting when we
introduce dynamics into the latent variables, leading to
models such as the well-known Kalman Filter.
As we will see in this chapter, when we consider Deep
Latent Variable Models, the algorithms used to estimate
these models become even more interesting. The concepts
and tools required to develop them are applied in many
fields, including statistics, machine learning, optimization,
--- PAGE 310 ---
information theory, etc., and have applications across many
areas.
6.2 Latent Variable Models
Latent variable models aim to represent high-dimensional
data distributions using two simpler distributions. The
model involves a latent variable and an observed variable
,where is an -dimensional random vector and is a -
dimensional random vector. By design, we choose
to ensure a lower dimensionality for the latent space.
A latent variable model is defined by the joint probability
distribution of the latent and observed variables as
. The model is specified by two
components: a probability distribution over the latent
variables, , called the prior distribution, and a
conditional distribution over the observed data given the
latent variables, , which maps from the latent space
to the data space. Sampling in latent variable models is
relatively straightforward, as it follows the data generation
process described by:
(6.1)
The challenge lies in choosing the prior and conditional
distributions to represent our hypotheses about the data
generation process. These choices also determine the
specific methods used for performing latent variable
inference and parameter estimation.
As examples of these particular choices, we will briefly
examine traditional latent variable models such as Factor
Analysis (FA), Probabilistic Principal Component Analysis
--- PAGE 311 ---
(PPCA), and Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) before
moving on to the main topic of this chapter: Deep Latent
Variable Models.
6.3 Examples of Traditional Latent
Variable Models
6.3.1 Factor Analysis
As we have already seen, Factor Analysis (FA), see Bishop
(2006), is a foundational model that expresses the modeling
assumption that data can be explained by a reduced
number of factors. This approach has interesting
applications, such as covariance matrix estimation and
dimensionality reduction we just saw, among others.
Similarly, PPCA, which we will also examine later, builds on
this probabilistic framework. In this section, we will go into
the probabilistic formulation of these methods.
In FA, we assume that both the marginal and conditional
distributions are Gaussian and are defined as follows:
(6.2)
where is the prior distribution over the latent
variable, and , and represents the conditional
probability over the latent variable given the observed
data .
In the FA literature, the matrix is referred to as
the loading matrix, and it captures the correlations
between the observed variables. The vector of means
can be thought as a bias term. The matrix is
--- PAGE 312 ---
diagonal with elements and represents the noise
covariance matrix. The values along the diagonal are the
independent noise variances for each variable. In finance,
this is commonly referred to as idiosyncratic variance, as
described in Bodie et al. (2018).
To obtain the marginal distribution over , we integrate
out all possible values of the latent variable :
In FA, where both and are Gaussian, this
integral has a closed-form solution. However, a simpler way
to compute the marginal distribution and to avoid the
previous integral is to express as:
where .
Using the property that Gaussians are closed under
addition and multiplication, the marginal distribution over
is also Gaussian. Therefore, we only need to compute the
mean and covariance of , which are given by:
Thus, the marginal distribution over is:
where , retrieving the formulation presented
in the introduction of this chapter.
Parameter estimation in this model follows a well-known
approach: the parameters , , and are estimated from
data using the Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm.
--- PAGE 313 ---
For more details on parameter estimation for FA, see
Bishop (2006).
6.3.2 Probabilistic Principal Component
Analysis
Probabilistic Principal Component Analysis, or Probabilistic
PCA (PPCA), is the probabilistic version of PCA proposed
by Bishop and Tipping (2001). As we know, PCA is a widely
used technique in data analysis and processing, yet it does
not rely on a probabilistic model. Particularly in finance,
PCA is employed to identify statistical factors that can be
utilized for asset prediction (Chan, 2017) or risk modeling,
where these factors have shown performance comparable
to fundamental ones (see Paleologo [2021]).
This model is closely related to the Factor Analysis. In
PPCA, both the prior and conditional distributions are
Gaussian and are defined by the same equations as in
Equation 6.2. However, the key difference between the two
methods is that PPCA assumes is a constant diagonal
matrix, denoted as .
This assumption provides a computational advantage while
preserving the interpretability of Factor Analysis.
6.3.2.1 Example: Comparing PCA and Factor Analysis
for Latent Space Recovery.
As an illustrative use case for Factor Analysis (FA) versus
Probabilistic PCA (PPCA), let’s explore an example adapted
from the sklearn documentation (https://scikit-
learn.org/stable/auto_examples/decomposition/plot_pca_vs
_fa_model_selection.html). As we have seen, FA and PPCA
are closely related: both assume Gaussian prior and
--- PAGE 314 ---
Gaussian conditional distributions. The key difference lies
in their treatment of idiosyncratic variance.
PPCA assumes homoscedastic noise, meaning the
variance is the same for all variables (identity
covariance matrix).
Factor Analysis assumes heteroscedastic noise, where
each variable has its own variance (diagonal covariance
matrix).
This example illustrates the ability of PCA (the limiting case
of PPCA with zero variance) and Factor Analysis to recover
the correct latent dimension in a low-rank simulated
dataset with additive noise. We examine two cases, one
with homoscedastic noise, with the same variance for each
variable (identity covariance), and a second case with
heteroscedastic noise, with different variance for each
variable (diagonal covariance).
For the experiment, we generate 100-dimensional data with
an underlying low-rank structure (latent dimension = 10).
Results regarding model selection for homoscedastic noise
are illustrated in Figure 6.2. In this case, the low-rank data
has been corrupted with noise that has equal variance
across all variables. Both PCA (blue) and Factor Analysis
(red) successfully recover the correct latent dimension of
10 when performing model selection.
--- PAGE 315 ---
Figure 6.2 Illustration of model selection for
homoscedastic noise.
On the other hand, results regarding model for
heteroscedastic noise are illustrated in Figure 6.3. Here,
the low-rank data are corrupted with noise that has varying
variance across variables. This leads to a more interesting
result:
Factor Analysis (red) correctly identifies the latent
dimension as 10, aligning with its assumption of
heteroscedastic noise.
PCA (blue), on the other hand, overestimates the latent
dimension.
--- PAGE 316 ---
Figure 6.3 Illustration of model selection for
heteroscedastic noise.
These results demonstrate how the assumptions behind
each method influence their ability to capture the true
latent structure in the presence of different noise
characteristics.
6.3.2.2 Advantages of Probabilistic Approaches
(PPCA/FA) over PCA
There are several advantages of using the probabilistic
approach, either with PPCA or FA, over PCA, also called the
non-probabilistic PCA. Some of the main ones include the
following:
Estimation with Missing Data: PPCA and FA provide
a natural framework for parameter estimation when
some entries of a vector in the dataset are
missing. This contrasts with the non-probabilistic PCA,
--- PAGE 317 ---
where parameter estimation with missing data might
requires data imputation techniques.
Mixtures of Probabilistic Principal Component
Analysis Models: Sometimes, a single PCA projection
is insufficient to explain the data. Why not use a
mixture of PCA models? This idea is analogous to
Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM), detailed in the next
section, where the data distribution is approximated
using a mixture of Gaussians rather than a single
Gaussian. Similarly, the probabilistic framework allows
that a mixture of PPCA models can be easily
implemented to better capture the structure of the
data, which is an advantage over the non-probabilistic
approach.
Data Generation and Likelihood Computation: If
your task involves data generation or the computation
of densities (e.g., finding the likelihood of a point in
your dataset), the probabilistic versions (PPCA/FA) are
the way to go, as they explicitly model the data
distribution.
For more details on these advantages, as well as the
estimation procedures for FA, PPCA, and PCA using the
Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm, refer to the
excellent reference paper by Bishop and Tipping (2001) on
PPCA.
In practice, choosing the appropriate method can be done
using cross-validation or domain knowledge. Also, you
might:
Use explained variance to determine the dimension of
the latent space.
You might decide between PPCA and FA based on
whether you believe the idiosyncratic variance
--- PAGE 318 ---
(residual noise) of each variable should be equal
(homoscedastic), requiring a single to estimate, or
different (heteroscedastic), requiring variances to
estimate .
For initial data exploration or modeling insight, you
might use PCA, which is computationally more efficient
to estimate than its probabilistic counterpart.
Depending on your needs, PCA might offer a good
trade-off between performance and computational
complexity, especially when the amount of data to
process is extremely large.
By understanding or making assumptions about the noise
structure in our data we can make a better informed
decision about our modeling choices.
6.3.3 Gaussians Mixture Models
In the Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM), the latent variable
is discrete, taking values in the set , while the
observed value is continuous, taking values in . The
latent variable follows a Categorical distribution, denoted
as , where ,
and, for example, the probability that the variable takes
the value is given by . The conditional
distribution of given are Gaussian, defined by
.
The mixture of Gaussian becomes apparent when
computing the marginal over the observed variable by
marginalizing the joint probability between the latent and
observed variables over the latent variable, as follows:
--- PAGE 319 ---
(6.3)
The result is simply a weighted sum of Gaussians (hence
the adjective “mixture”). We can create different mixture
models by altering the probability mass over the latent
variables.
The posterior probability distribution of the latent variables
given the observations quantifies the probability that the
data point was generated by the -th mixture component.
It is given by the conditional distribution:
(6.4)
For an illustrative example of GMM applied to clustering,
see Figure 6.4. For more details on GMM see the excellent
references Bishop (2006) and Murphy (2022).
--- PAGE 320 ---
Figure 6.4 Illustration of clustering using Gaussian
Mixture Models (GMMs). (a) Generated 2D data
samples. (b) A possible clustering of the same data
with using GMMs with a diagonal covariance
matrix. (c) A possible clustering with using
GMMs with a full covariance matrix. Cluster
assignments (indicated by colors) are determined
by selecting the cluster with the highest posterior
probability for each point. Illustration based on
Figure 3.12 in Murphy (2022), with additional
details.
6.3.3.1 Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) for Market
Regime Detection.
Let’s explore how Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) can be
applied to a well-known problem: detecting market
regimes. As we know, markets change over time, and
traders and investors often use domain knowledge to label
--- PAGE 321 ---
certain periods. Common labels we hear in the press, on
the news, or in interviews include terms like “bull market,”
“bear market,” “trending market,” or “mean-reverting
market,” and so on. In this case, however, we are going to
take a data-driven approach to estimate market regimes.
Modeling market regimes is crucial for traders and
investors, as for example, it might help them deploy the
most appropriate strategy from a pool of potential
strategies for the current market conditions or incorporate
regime information into portfolio construction models for
risk management. As we will see, GMM serves as a
powerful building block for developing more sophisticated
models that can be tailored to your specific market
insights.
6.3.3.2 Example: Low and High Volatility Regimes.
In this hypothetical scenario, based on domain knowledge,
let’s say we are interested in identifying two distinct
clusters that may correspond to two different market
regimes: one with low volatility and the other with high
volatility. These regimes might be identified entirely based
on domain knowledge or through exploratory data analysis.
For instance, it’s unlikely that the returns of an asset like
the SPY could be well explained over long periods using a
single Gaussian distribution with constant mean and
constant variance. Consider recent periods in history, such
as the time before, during, and after the COVID-19
pandemic. During the pandemic, volatility was
exceptionally high, while the months before and after
exhibited much lower volatility. For simplicity, we might
build a model to capture this high-volatility period
separately from the low-volatility periods, which we could
then visualize as “clusters” in the SPY returns time series.
From an application point of view, identifying volatility
--- PAGE 322 ---
regimes can help traders make decisions such as adjusting
portfolio allocations, modifying leverage levels, or
implementing volatility-specific trading strategies.
In the following example, we use the SPY ETF return data
for market regime detection. In this setup, the latent
variable represents the market regime and can take two
possible values: “low volatility” or “high volatility.”
Conditioned on the market regime (or state of ), we
assume that returns follow a Gaussian distribution with
regime-specific means and variances.
In this case, the data generation process can be described
as follows. Since we have only two states for the latent
variable, 0 or 1, at time we draw the value of the state
from a Bernoulli distribution with parameter , where
:
Once the value of the latent variable is determined, at time
we generate data from the corresponding Gaussian
distribution, with regime-specific means and variances, as
follows:
Here, the state corresponds to the first cluster, or
low-volatility regime, while represents the second
cluster, or high-volatility regime. In the accompanying
notebook [GMM-Market-Regime-Detection], we will
demonstrate how to estimate the parameters of this model,
namely , using data from the SPY ETF.
Figure 6.5 is a time-series plot of SPY returns from January
2000 to March 2024, along with the most probable market
regimes estimated from the posterior probability
distribution (see Equation 6.4) for this period. In this plot,
--- PAGE 323 ---
individual points represent SPY returns, while vertical
frames indicate the most probable regime at each time
point. Light orange corresponds to regime 0 (low volatility),
and blue corresponds to regime 1 (high volatility) (see
Figure 6.5). As shown in Figure 6.5, this simple model
identifies well-known high-volatility periods over the
timeline, such as the 2008 financial crisis and the pandemic
period in 2020. It is worth noting that in this example, we
are addressing the problem of market regime detection or
identification, not market regime forecasting or prediction.
Figure 6.5 Gaussian Mixture Model for market
regime detection.
Two Sigma, one of the largest hedge funds in the world,
ranked fourth in Forbes Advisor’s “Top 10 US Hedge Funds
of December 2024” (Baldridge, 2024) with $67.47 billion in
assets under management (AUM) at the time of writing this
chapter, shared a similar approach in their blog post, “A
Machine Learning Approach to Regime Modeling,” see
Botte and Bao (2021). They used GMM to detect market
regimes and identified four clusters they linked to different
market conditions: Crisis, Steady State, Inflation, and
Walking on Ice. They backed these labels with historical
--- PAGE 324 ---
analysis and applied the method to custom-built factors
developed in-house.
Even though their setup uses more clusters and proprietary
data, the underlying method is very similar. GMM is a
strong starting point for building more powerful models,
which you can tailor with your unique insights into the
market.
There are many ways to improve our modeling approach
for regime detection. For example, one limitation of the
basic GMM setup is that it assumes the latent variables are
independent over time. This assumption ignores the well-
known stylized fact of volatility clustering, where periods of
high volatility tend to be followed by more high-volatility
periods, and the same is true for low-volatility periods.
To capture this, you can add dynamics to the latent
variables. This essentially turns GMM into a Hidden
Markov Model (HMM), which has been widely used for
market regime detection (see Chan [2017] Kinlaw et al.,
[2021]). Unlike GMM, HMM adds “memory,” allowing it to
better reflect how market conditions evolve over time.
As a fun historical note, Leonard Baum
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonard_E._Baum), one of
the first employees of Monemetrics (the precursor to
Renaissance Technologies, considered the most successful
quantitative hedge fund ever), co-developed the Baum-
Welch algorithm. This algorithm, a special case of
Expectation-Maximization (EM), is used to estimate the
parameters of an HMM.
According to Gregory Zuckerman’s book (Zuckerman,
2019), The Man Who Solved the Market, James Simons,
founder of Renaissance Technologies, said about his early
days at Monemetrics: “Once I got Lenny (Leonard)
involved, I could see the possibilities of building models.”
--- PAGE 325 ---
Now, in the rest of this chapter, we will focus on cases
where the parameters of the conditional distribution of
observations given the latent variables are functions of the
latent variables and are modeled using Deep Neural
Networks.
6.3.4 Deep Latent Variable Models
In this book, we will focus on specific representations for
the latent variable model we have discussed so far, namely:
Here, represents the prior over the latent variable .
Unlike the earlier examples, the parameters of the
conditional probability of given are determined by Deep
Neural Network function of . Typically, as before, the
relationship is represented as
, but now is defined as
.
Note that is also known as the decoder, a term that
you will find all over the deep learning and LLM literature.
Such models are referred to as Deep Latent Variable
Models (DLVM). When the prior over the latent variable is
Gaussian, the model is known as a Deep Latent Gaussian
Model (DLGM); see Murphy (2023).
Contrary to the examples previously discussed, the
posterior computation is intractable. Likewise, the
marginal over is also intractable:
--- PAGE 326 ---
We will need to approximate this quantity to compute the
density of and, in turn, use it to estimate the parameters
of the model, In the next section, we will explore methods
for approximating this integral to effectively train Deep
Latent Variable Models.
6.4 Learning
6.4.1 Training Objective
As we discussed in the previous chapter on autoregressive
(AR) models, once we define a family of probability
distributions parametrized by , denoted by , our goal
is to establish an objective function that will allow us to
select the best model from this family that most accurately
approximates the data distribution, .
Similar to AR models, we will use the log-likelihood to
define our objective function:
however, as we have observed, this calculation is
intractable for most interesting cases.
--- PAGE 327 ---
6.4.2 The Variational Inference Approximation
Given that the exact likelihood is intractable, we will derive
an approximation for it and pick the best model by
optimizing this quantity. The following derivations were
inspired by the exposition style presented in Levine (2021).
Let’s focus on a single observation
(6.5)
where indicates expectation value over the
distribution . In this derivation, we introduced an
arbitrary distribution by applying an identity—
multiplying and dividing the integrand by this quantity.
This technique allowed us to rewrite the integral as an
expectation with respect to arbitrary distribution . This
technique is known as importance sampling, and it provides
a framework for approximating expectations with respect
to distributions that are difficult to sample from but easy to
evaluate. It does so by using a distribution that is easier to
sample from, such as , which is a design choice (see
Bishop [2006]). In the importance sampling literature,
is referred to as the proposal distribution.
Applying Jensen’s inequality to Equation 6.5,
, we can push the inside the
expectation, obtaining:
--- PAGE 328 ---
(6.6)
Here, the last expression in Equation 6.6 is known as the
Evidence Lower Bound (ELBO, pronounced as “elbow”),
defined as follows:
(6.7)
The ELBO can be written or interpreted in two ways
(Levine, 2021). The first one uses the entropy formulation:
(6.8)
here, represents the Entropy of the probability
distribution , defined .
The second commonly used interpretation involves the
Kullback-Leibler Divergence:
(6.9)
This formulation highlights the common interpretation
given to this objective function in the variational inference
literature: the first term represents the reconstruction
--- PAGE 329 ---
error (log likelihood), and the second term serves as a
regularization term. The advantage of this approach is that
the KL divergence between and often has a
closed-form solution, especially when both distributions are
Gaussian—a common design choice that also simplifies the
gradient computation.
6.4.2.1 How to Choose the Proposal Distribution
One critical decision in this formulation is to pick the
proposal distribution, . We could say that it makes
sense to align the proposal distribution close to the
posterior distribution of the latent variable given the
observed data , represented as . Therefore, we can
opt to minimize the KL divergence between both
distributions to make close to , which involves:
(6.10)
here, minimizing with respect to is
equivalent to maximizing with respect to , since
is independent of :
--- PAGE 330 ---
(6.11)
Hamlet remembers the first time he encountered this
derivation and how amazed he was by its elegant result. It
enables us to design a proposal distribution using tractable
quantities, even when the quantities involved in the
derivation, such as the posterior distribution, are
intractable. In most practical cases, where deep neural
networks are used to parameterize conditional
distributions, computing the posterior directly is
infeasible. If we had direct access to this posterior, we
could use it instead of relying on .
Remarkably, the derivation shows that we do not actually
need access to the posterior to find a proposal
distribution that is close to it, that minimizes the KL
divergence between both distributions. By developing the
optimization problem, we discover that making as
close as possible to the posterior is equivalent to
maximizing Equation 6.7, the ELBO with respect to . This
is a powerful result because the ELBO consists of
quantities that are tractable and can be computed
efficiently.
What surprised Hamlet most is the realization that by
optimizing the same objective—the ELBO—with respect to
, we can simultaneously find the best parameters for
approximating the data distribution. In other words, finding
the optimal that best approximates the posterior and the
optimal that best models the data involves alternating
between two steps:
1. Maximizing the ELBO with respect to to make as
close as possible to the posterior in KL
divergence sense.
--- PAGE 331 ---
2. Maximizing the ELBO with respect to to increase the
likelihood of the observed data .
This alternating optimization approach unifies the goals of
posterior approximation and data likelihood maximization
under the same objective function.
Recall that we have constructed all these equations for a
single, fixed, observation . One of the challenges with this
formulation is that for each in our dataset , we need to
solve an inference problem as specified by Equation 6.11 to
determine for the specific , denoted as . For example,
if we represent , this will involves
finding a unique and for every data point.
Consequently, the number of parameters to be estimated
are:
here, the notation represent the number of parameters.
As indicated by the previous formula, the number of
parameters to estimate is linear with respect to the size of
the dataset , which in current practical applications can
be huge.
6.4.2.2 Amortized Inference.
The main idea behind amortized inference is that if we
repeatedly face the same inference problem, could a
parameterized function solve it for us? This leads us to
consider using a family of neural networks for this task.
Instead of determining a distinct by solving the
optimization problem in Equation 6.11 for every individual
, we might think of finding a single where the
parameters are determined by a Deep Neural Network that
--- PAGE 332 ---
takes as input, and that minimizes the average KL
divergence across the entire dataset:
(6.12)
This formulation enables us to use another Deep Neural
Network to define the parameters of and solve the
problem in an amortized manner. This network takes an
input and outputs the parameters of a probability
distribution over the latent variable is commonly referred
to as the encoder in the literature.
6.4.3 Optimization
As previously seen, to optimize for and , we need to
maximize the same training objective, the ELBO, with
respect to both and . Now, considering the computation
of:
(6.13)
we face the challenge of computing gradients with respect
to , which involves taking the derivative with respect to
the parameters of the distribution over which the expected
value is taken. There are two common methods to address
this problem: the famous REINFORCE algorithm (Williams,
1992) and the reparametrization trick (Kingma, 2013).
6.4.3.1 The Likelihood Gradient, REINFORCE.
The REINFORCE algorithm can be derived as follows:
--- PAGE 333 ---
(6.14)
This method computes the gradient of an expectation by
exploiting the identity . So, the
gradient of an expectation becomes the expectation of a
gradient. REINFORCE uses a Monte Carlo approach to
estimate the gradient of the expectation in Equation 6.14.
One advantage of this method is that it works with latent
variables whose value spaces can be either discrete or
continuous. However, one of the primary disadvantages
with this approach is that it tends to suffer from high
variance. For more details about the algorithm, see
Williams (1992).
6.4.3.2 Reparameterization Trick.
An alternative approach is the reparameterization trick
(Kingma, 2013), which can be utilized for the computation
of Equation 6.13.
For expectations involving sampling from
, we can reparametrize as:
(6.15)
where . With the reparametrization trick, all
randomness is absorbed by , and for computing the
--- PAGE 334 ---
gradient with respect to , we just need to compute the
gradient of the deterministic functions and .
This gradient can be computed efficiently using automatic
differentiation tools such as PyTorch or TensorFlow.
6.4.4 Mind the Gap!
Another way to write Equation 6.10 is:
(6.16)
In this formulation, the term is known as
the gap or error that arises when approximating the log
likelihood by the ELBO. If we truly match to , the
KL will be zero and the log likelihood is equal to the ELBO.
Consequently, the error in our approximation is quantified
by the KL divergence between our approximation to
.
6.5 Variational Autoencoder (VAE)
The Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is a latent variable
model where the marginal distribution over the latent
variable is Gaussian, and both the encoder and decoder (to
be discussed shortly) are modeled as conditional Gaussians,
as described by Kingma (2013). The observations can be
images, multivariate time series, etc.
The encoder takes as input and outputs the parameters of
, specifically the mean vector and covariance matrix.
Similarly, the decoder takes as input and outputs the
--- PAGE 335 ---
mean vector and covariance matrix for . The
classical VAE is typically trained using the
reparametrization trick. A schematic representation of
these operations is illustrated in Figure 6.6.
Figure 6.6 VAE.
Source: EugenioTL /
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Reparameterized_Variational_Aut
oencoder.png, last accessed on 13 January 2025 / CC BY 30.
More formally, the classical VAE (Kingma, 2013) is defined
by the following representations:
The prior over ,
The encoder,
The decoder
VAEs are typically trained using the reparametrization
trick. During training, the ELBO is used as training
objective:
with . To optimize for and ,
gradients and are computed, typically
using Stochastic Gradients. Parameters and can be
then updated using gradient ascent.
--- PAGE 336 ---
After training the VAE, new points can be generated by
sampling a value from the prior and feeding this value into
the decoder to generate a new sample:
In Figure 6.7, we see visualizations from the paper Kingma
(2013) of the learned latent space and the corresponding
data space, generated by a VAE after training on the Frey
Faces dataset.
--- PAGE 337 ---
Figure 6.7 Illustration of the learned data manifold
for generative models with a two-dimensional
independent Gaussian latent space. Varying one
coordinate generates smiling faces, while varying
the other alters head poses, both independently.
The model was trained on the Frey Faces dataset.
Source: Kingma (2013).
A remarkable aspect is that since the prior of the latent
space are independent Gaussian variables (identity
covariance), using a two-dimensional latent space
illustrates disentanglement in the data space. Varying one
coordinate can generate smiling faces, while varying the
--- PAGE 338 ---
other can alter head poses, all independently, as shown in
Figure 6.7.
The VAE can also serve as a representation learning tool
for downstream machine learning tasks. For example, if
represents an image, the compressed representation
could be used as input for an image classifier. In fact, this
representation learning approach is utilized in Stable
Diffusion, one of the most powerful techniques for image
generation currently available.
In the accompanying notebook for this chapter ([VAE
Notebook]), we implement and test the traditional VAE
model introduced by Kingma (2013). While this example
uses image data, it serves as an important step for building
a solid understanding of VAEs, which we will extend to
capture time-series dynamics.
6.6 VAEs for Sequential Data and
Time Series
As we saw in the previous section based on the work of
Kingma (2013), and illustrated in Figure 6.7, VAEs are
really good at modeling the correlations within an image
in a dataset, where is a -dimensional vector of pixel
intensities. If we want to apply standard VAEs to time-
series data, we might simply reinterpret the vector as a
multivariate time series with series at time and use
VAEs to sample cross-sectional time series, for example.
However, in the standard latent variable model framework,
the data generation process assumes that we sample
from and then generate from the conditional
distribution . By design, this structure assumes
independence between consecutive observations. This
independence assumption can significantly limit the
--- PAGE 339 ---
performance of VAEs in scenarios where temporal
dependencies between observations are significant.
There are several interesting ways to extend the standard
VAE to capture temporal dependencies between
observations. This is particularly important for modeling
time series at certain time scales, where past
prices/returns, market conditions, and other factors
significantly influence future prices/returns. These
extensions can take inspiration from traditional time-series
models, such as incorporating autoregressive structures in
the observations or latent variables, similar to classical
AutoRegressive models or Dynamic Linear Models (DLMs),
see Prado and West (2010). Next, we mention a few
alternatives for this.
6.6.1 Extending VAEs for Time Series
6.6.1.1 Sequential Encoders and Decoders.
One straightforward extension is to replace the standard
VAE encoder and decoder used in Kingma (2013) with
sequential models, such as RNNs, or Transformers. One
example of this approach is the Variational Recurrent
Autoencoder (VRAE) by Fabius and Van Amersfoort (2014).
Following is a brief description of the main idea behind
VRAE:
VRAE uses the final hidden state of the encoder RNN
as a representation or summary of the input sequence.
This hidden state is then used to determine the
parameters of the probability distribution of the latent
variable . In other words, the distribution over is
determined from the last state of the RNN.
--- PAGE 340 ---
The latent variable is then sampled using the
reparameterization trick.
Finally, the sampled latent variable is passed into the
decoder RNN, which reconstructs the input sequence.
6.6.1.2 Superposition of Time-series Components.
Another approach is to model time series as a superposition
of components—an idea commonly used in dynamic linear
models (DLMs), see Prado and West (2010). In this
framework, the observed time series might be composed as
a combinations of the following:
Local level or intercept (e.g., a random walk)
Long-term trend components
Seasonal patterns (e.g., weekly, monthly, or yearly
periodicities)
Short-term autocorrelated processes
Here, each time-series component can have its own state
vector (latent variables), which is then projected linearly
into the data space.
This approach provides both the interpretability and the
flexibility to incorporate domain expertise, address data
limitations, and adapt to the specific needs of the problem
at hand. By using individual time-series components,
modelers can design solutions that are tailored to their
specific needs. In the next section, we will describe a
solution based on this principle.
If you want to learn more about DLM models, check out the
introduction to Bayesian Structural Time-series Models
(Medina Ruiz, 2019), which explores time-series modeling
for predicting Criteo’s internet traffic load in the context of
--- PAGE 341 ---
server infrastructure capacity planning. This example
highlights how injecting domain knowledge into the
modeling process can address data limitations and improve
the overall performance.
6.6.1.3 TimeVAE: A Flexible VAE for Time-series
Generation.
A more recent example of extending VAEs to time series is
TimeVAE, introduced by Desai et al. (2021). TimeVAE
adapts VAEs specifically for multivariate time-series
generation, combining traditional deep learning layers with
time-series-specific components.
By using specialized decoders, TimeVAE allows the
inclusion of temporal structures—such as trends and
seasonal components—directly into the modeling process.
This approach combines the flexibility and interpretability
of traditional methods like Dynamic Linear Models (DLMs),
but with the advantage of capturing nonlinear relationships
in high-dimensional data. TimeVAE makes use of both
traditional learning layers (e.g., dense and convolutional
layers) and custom time-series-specific layers to capture
components like levels, multi-polynomial trends, and
seasonalities.
The TimeVAE architecture is divided into two main parts:
Base TimeVAE, which does not incorporate domain
knowledge for modeling the time series, and Interpretable
TimeVAE, which allows domain knowledge to be injected
and is tailored to model specific time-series components.
Following is a description of the architecture.
6.6.1.3.1 Architecture of TimeVAE
--- PAGE 342 ---
1. Base TimeVAE encoder and decoder
The encoder processes the input time series
through a series of convolutional layers with ReLU
activation.
The output of the encoder is flattened and passed
through a fully connected (dense) linear layer to
determine the parameters of the distribution over
the latent variable , which is modeled as a
multivariate Gaussian.
A realization of the latent variable is sampled
using the reparametrization trick, which is then
feed into the decoder.
The decoder tries to invert the encoding process. It
consists of a fully connected linear layer, followed
by reshaping and a series of transposed
convolutional layers with ReLU activation. Finally,
the data passes through a time-distributed fully
connected layer to produce the reconstructed time
series.
A schematic representation of Base TimeVAE can be found
in Figure 6.8.
--- PAGE 343 ---
Figure 6.8 Illustration of the encoder-decoder
architecture of Base TimeVAE. The input is
processed through a series of operations, including
convolutional layers, reshaping, and a dense layer,
to determine the parameters of the latent variable
distribution . The decoder takes a realization of
and tries to reconstruct the input by inverting the
encoding process. Figure 1 from Desai et al. (2021).
2. Interpretable TimeVAE: Time-series-specific
components
As mentioned, TimeVAE introduces specialized decoders to
model individual components of a time series, such as
trends and seasonalities.
Each specialized decoder takes the latent variable as
input (which can be produced by the Base TimeVAE
encoder). The outputs of these decoders are combined in
parallel by addition to produce the final reconstruction of
the time series. A schematic representation of Interpretable
TimeVAE can be found in Figure 6.9.
--- PAGE 344 ---
Figure 6.9 Illustration of the main components in
Interpretable TimeVAE. Specialized decoders, such
as the Trend Block, Seasonal Block 1, and Seasonal
Block 2, take the latent variable as input. The
outputs of these decoders are combined in parallel
through addition to produce the final
reconstruction of the time series. Seasonal Block 1
and Seasonal Block 2 can represent different
seasonal components, capturing multiple
seasonalities present in the time series. Figure 2
from Desai et al. (2021).
TimeVAE provides the following advantages:
Flexibility: You can easily model multiple temporal
components, such as polynomial trends of different
degrees, and different seasonalities (e.g., weekly,
monthly, yearly), making it highly adaptable to capture
different time-series characteristics.
Interpretability: By explicitly modeling components like
trends and seasonality, TimeVAE makes it easier to
understand the underlying structure of the time series.
Nonlinear Modeling: unlike traditional models like
DLM, TimeVAE can capture complex nonlinear
relationships in high dimensional data.
--- PAGE 345 ---
In the accompanying notebook for this chapter ([TimeVAE
Notebook]), we implement and test TimeVAE on financial
data. We believe that the best way to learn is by hands-on
practice, and this notebook gives you the opportunity to
explore and experiment with the specific decoder
architectures used in the paper for modeling trends and
seasonalities. You can also extend these architectures to fit
your specific needs.
If you are not yet familiar with the standard VAE
implementation, we recommend starting with the VAE
notebook, where the encoder and decoder architectures
are easier to follow. This will provide a solid foundation
before diving into TimeVAE.
6.7 Conclusion
In this chapter, we explored how VAEs provide a powerful
framework for modeling complex, multimodal, and high-
dimensional data.
We saw how VAEs are highly efficient at sampling and
flexible for modeling high-dimensional data using a smaller
latent space representation. This latent space provides
meaningful data representations that can be used for
applications such as compression, data generation, and
other downstream tasks. However, one trade-off for this
flexibility is that the likelihood computation becomes
intractable for most practical cases involving deep models.
To address this, we rely on likelihood approximations,
which enable parameter estimation and tasks like model
selection.
We also discussed how VAEs can be extended to handle
sequential data, particularly for time-series dynamics. For
example, we introduced approaches like the VRAE and
--- PAGE 346 ---
TimeVAE, which combine the VAE framework with
sequential architectures like RNNs and time-series-specific
components. These models offer a practical starting point
for building solutions tailored to your own applications,
whether for forecasting financial data, generating financial
data, or other sequential problems or data. The latent
representation learned by VAEs is highly versatile and can
be used to train downstream models to solve a wide variety
of applications. While we have seen its use in time-series
generation, it can also be used for tasks such as
classification, anomaly detection, and forecasting.
In the next chapters, we will continue expanding our
toolbox of deep generative models for high-dimensional
data—models that were originally successful in NLP and
computer vision. More importantly, for our use cases in
Trading and Asset Management, we will explore techniques
to show how these models can be further extended and
adapted for time-series and sequential data applications.
--- PAGE 347 ---
Chapter 7
Flow Models
In the last chapter, we explored how Deep Latent Variable
Models (DLVMs) model complex probability distributions
as the integral of the product of two simpler distributions.
This approach, while powerful, introduces several
complexities, such as the intractability of the marginal
probability of the observations. To address this, we often
resort to approximations like the Evidence Lower Bound
(ELBO).
In this chapter, we will examine a simpler yet effective
approach for modeling complex distributions: flow models.
Flow models are also latent variable models but circumvent
many of the challenges associated with DLVMs described in
the previous chapter. They allow us to compute marginals
(i.e., ) exactly, sample efficiently, and use them for
representation learning without the need for complex
likelihood approximations. Flow models fall into the
category of explicit models with a tractable density, as
illustrated in Figure 7.1.
--- PAGE 348 ---
Figure 7.1 Model taxonomy: flow models.
7.1 Introduction
Latent Variable Models (LVMs) are characterized by a
probability distribution over the latent variable , denoted
by , and a conditional probability distribution over the
observation given the latent variable , denoted by
. In Deep Latent Variable Models, the parameters of
this conditional probability are determined by a Deep
Neural Network called the decoder. The decoder takes as
input and outputs the parameter of the probability
distribution over . For example, in the case of the
Variational Autoencoder (VAE), these parameters are the
mean vector and covariance matrix of a Gaussian
distribution over . In this setting, the value of influences
the probability density over the possible states of , but it
does not deterministically specify its state. Thus, the
mapping from to provided by the decoder is
probabilistic.
--- PAGE 349 ---
In flow models, we replace the probabilistic decoder
, with a deterministic mapping from the latent
variable to the observation , denoted by . In the
terminology of flow models, is called the base
measure or base distribution, and is referred as the flow.
In these models, computing the marginal or density of
involves solving a derived distribution problem, where the
base measure is given, and we aim to find the
probability distribution of as a function of the base
measure. The distribution of is given by the change of
variables formula, which allows us to express the
probability density as a function of the known .
(7.1)
with , and representing the Jacobian
matrix.
In flow models, the base measure is typically a simple
distribution, such as a normal distribution or a uniform
distribution. When the base measure is a normal
distribution, the flow model is known as a normalizing flow.
The goal is to design the flow to be a highly complex
function capable of mapping a simple base measure to a
multimodal, complex data distribution.
Compared to deep latent variable models discussed in the
previous chapter, normalizing flows allow exact
computation of marginals without the need for
approximations or lower bounds. Sampling in flow models
is also simpler, and can be performed as follows:
--- PAGE 350 ---
(7.2)
Thus, we sample from the base measure and apply the
flow transformation to obtain the observation .
The change of variables formula imposes certain
constraints on the family of flows that we can use.
Specifically, for this formula to work, must be invertible
and differentiable. Consequently, the dimensionality of the
observations must be equal to the dimensionality of the
latent variable .
To meet these requirements, we need to design special
neural network architectures that are invertible and
differentiable. This often involves creating innovative and
complex deep models that satisfy to these constraints.
7.2 Model Training
We train flow models using maximum likelihood estimation.
The log-likelihood is given by:
(7.3)
where . The primary challenge lies in
designing neural network architectures to model a flow
that is invertible and has a Jacobian determinant that can
be efficiently computed. This is crucial for ensuring that the
--- PAGE 351 ---
log-likelihood can be computed quickly for potentially
millions of data points in our dataset. In the following
sections, we will detail and elaborate on some architectures
that meet these constraints.
7.3 Linear Flows
Let’s revisit the linear factor model from the last chapter,
where the prior over and the conditional model of are
given by:
(7.4)
To convert this linear factor model into a flow model, a
simple approach is to replace the probabilistic mapping or
probabilistic decoder from to , defined by the
conditional distribution, with a deterministic mapping or
flow, represented by . If we assume the same base
measure (prior) and the flow as , we
obtain what is known as Linear Normalizing Flows, see
Kobyzev et al. (2021). This can be interpreted as a scale
and location transformation of the variable . In this
setting, must be a invertible matrix in order for
the flow to be invertible.
Sampling under this model is straightforward. We sample
from the base measure , and compute using the
flow and the realized value of .
As an exercise, let’s compute the marginal distribution over
using the change of variables formula. To apply this
formula, we need to know the inverse flow, which is given
by , and the Jacobian, which is
--- PAGE 352 ---
equal to . Then, the density over can be computed as
follows:
where we used the fact that .
Thus, follows a Gaussian distribution with mean vector
and covariance matrix . An easier way to compute the
marginal distribution over is to recognize that a linear
transformation of a Gaussian distribution results in another
Gaussian distribution. Hence, the probability distribution
over can be derived by computing its mean vector and
covariance matrix:
Therefore,
--- PAGE 353 ---
However, linear flows are limited in their expressiveness,
as they only modify the mean and covariance matrix of the
base distribution. Even if we stack multiple linear
transformations, they remain closed under composition.
This means that the composition of linear transformations
is equivalent to a single linear transformation, which limits
the expressiveness of this model. This is insufficient for
modeling very complex data distributions. In general, for
base measures that are members of the exponential family,
a linear transformation remains within the exponential
family, potentially eliminating the need for the change of
variables formula for computing the probability density
over the observations. However, in the case of nonlinear
flows, this formula is essential.
Additionally, the determinant of the Jacobian
equal to . If is a full matrix, computing this
determinant requires operations, which can be
prohibitively expensive for high-dimensional datasets.
One way to reduce the computational complexity of the
Jacobian’s determinant and its inverse is to impose some
particular structure on the linear transformation, in our
case on the matrix , that reduce the computational cost of
inverse and determinant calculations. For example, Table
7.1 shows useful structures that can be imposed on the
matrix used for the linear transformation, along with the
computational complexity for computing its inverse and
determinant. More useful structures are discussed in
Kobyzev et al. (2021) and Brubaker and Köthe (2021).
--- PAGE 354 ---
TABLE 7.1
Computational complexity of the inverse and
determinant of the Jacobian based on matrix
structure. Here, denotes the dimension of the
latent variable, and represents the block size for
Block Diagonal matrices or the number of channels
for 1 × 1 convolutions.
Adapted from Brubaker and Köthe (2021).
Matrix Type Inverse Determinant
Complexity Complexity
Full
Diagonal
Triangular
Block Diagonal
LU Factorized
Special
Convolution
1 × 1
Convolution
7.4 Designing Nonlinear Flows
As we saw in the previous example with a linear flow, its
expressiveness is very limited since a composition of linear
transformations is equivalent to a single linear
transformation. Additionally, we highlighted some of the
main requirements that a flow must satisfy for the change
of variables formula to work, as well as some key
--- PAGE 355 ---
properties for model expressiveness and computational
efficiency. We want flows that are:
Expressive enough to model complex data distributions
Invertible
Differentiable
Computationally efficient to invert
Computationally efficient to compute the Jacobian
determinant
Flows are also called flow layers or bijections, see Kobyzev
et al. (2021).
From deep neural networks, we know that an easy way to
improve model expressiveness is through function
composition. An important aspect of flow models is that the
composition of invertible flows or layers remains invertible.
So, if we compose different flows, such as
, and each is invertible and
differentiable, then will also be invertible and
differentiable.
Additionally, the determinant of the Jacobian for the
composed function has a very convenient form:
--- PAGE 356 ---
(7.5)
where . Thus, under the composition of flows,
the determinant of the Jacobian is equal to the product of
the determinants of the Jacobians of the individual flows,
which provides significant computational advantages. This
form simplifies the computation of log-likelihoods to the
sum of the log-determinants of each function involved in
the composition.
In the following sections, we will describe one main way of
designing nonlinear flows that are used in practice–
coupling flows. Coupling flows are based on the principle of
composition of invertible layers, a principle widely applied
to the design of deep invertible neural network flows.
Within this class, we will describe two specific cases:
Nonlinear Independent Components Estimation (NICE) and
Non-volume Preserving Transformation (Real-NVP).
7.5 Coupling Flows
Coupling flows are a widely used approach for constructing
nonlinear flows (Dinh et al., 2015). The main idea is to
partition the vector into two parts:
--- PAGE 357 ---
(7.6)
To transform into , we apply the flow , such that
. In the same manner, we can partition :
(7.7)
A flow is considered a coupling flow if:
(7.8)
where the first partition of remains unaffected by
the flow , and is another invertible transformation
(another flow) with parameters , applied to the second
partition of .
The parameters of the function , denoted as , are
defined by an arbitrary function . In practice, is
modelled by a neural network, whose input depend only on
the first partition of and not in the second partition
. The function is referred to as a conditioner,
which does not need to be invertible. The function is
known as a coupling function or coupling transform,
and must be a monotonic function of its argument,
therefore invertible. The function is called a coupling
flow or coupling layer. As we will see in the following
examples, different well-known coupling flows differ in how
they define the conditioner and the coupling function.
Specifically, we will examine two cases: one utilizing an
additive coupling function and another employing an affine
coupling function.
--- PAGE 358 ---
This structure has several advantages for building complex
nonlinear mappings, which are invertible. By stacking
multiple “coupling layers,” we can create highly expressive
flows while keeping the computation of the Jacobian
determinant efficient, as we will see in the next section.
As an illustration of the process, Figure 7.2 demonstrates
how the vector is partitioned and then transformed using
the flow as described.
Figure 7.2 Illustration of the operations involved in
coupling flows, including partitioning and
transformation using a coupling layer.
Adapted from Brubaker and Köthe (2021).
In the following section, inspired by the exposition style of
Levine (2021), we will explore two specific
implementations of coupling layers: Nonlinear
Independent Components Estimation (NICE) and Non-
volume Preserving Transformation (Real-NVP).
7.5.1 NICE: Nonlinear Independent Components
Estimation
In this section, we explain the approach to designing
invertible layers based on the work by Dinh et al. (2015),
--- PAGE 359 ---
known as NICE: Nonlinear Independent Components
Estimation.
As mentioned before, the approach involves partitioning
the vector into two parts, described as
. Due to the constraints of the invertible mapping, the
dimension of must also be equal to . We decompose the
entries of also into two components, namely
. In NICE, the invertible layer is defined
as follows:
(7.9)
NICE uses an additive coupling function, which is an
invertible transformation with parameters defined by
. In practice, is implemented using a neural
network, such as an MLP, a CNN, or other architectures
tailored to the specific problem. Given the value , we can
recover the vector by first recovering its first entries:
, and then using this result to recover the
second part of the entries .
The Jacobian of this mapping is given by:
(7.10)
where is an identity matrix with diagonal elements.
--- PAGE 360 ---
Since we are interested in the determinant of the Jacobian,
we do not need to compute the entry of , as the
of is zero, and will not contribute to the result.
Thus, the determinant of the Jacobian is .
The log-likelihood for this model is given by:
(7.11)
which is computationally convenient. However, the fact
that the determinant of the Jacobian is constant and equal
to 1 means that this flow only transforms the base measure
but does not rescale it. This limits the expressiveness of the
model and makes it difficult to fit very complex data
distributions (see Levine [2021]). Therefore, in practical
settings, a rescaling layer is often inserted into the model
(see Dinh et al. [2015]).
In practice, we stack several of these invertible layers to
train generative flow models effectively. As an illustrative
example of how these models perform on simple image
data, in Figure 7.3, subfigures (a) and (b) show samples
from a NICE model that has been trained to model the
distribution of the simple MNIST digits dataset and basic
images from the TFD dataset. The architecture used in both
experiments consists of a stack of four NICE
layers/functions. Each NICE layer is implemented as a deep
rectified network with linear output units. The authors use
the same network architecture for all NICE functions: five
hidden layers with 1,000 units each for the MNIST dataset
and four hidden layers with 5,000 units each for the TFD
--- PAGE 361 ---
dataset. As observed, the generated digit images (subfigure
a) look like real digits from the MNIST dataset, and the
generated simple face images (subfigure b) resemble faces
to some extent. This model, developed in 2015, was the
first normalizing flow model capable of generating images
of reasonable quality for its time. We will discuss how to
extend these models to capture temporal dependencies in
Section 7.8, as well as an example in financial applications
in Section 7.8.3.
Figure 7.3 Illustration of unbiased samples
generated by the NICE model when trained on the
MNIST dataset (subfigure a) and the TFD dataset
(subfigure b).
Source: Dinh, Krueger, and Bengio (2015).
However, when the model is trained on more complex
datasets, as shown in Figure 7.4, its performance
deteriorates. In subfigure (c), we see samples generated
from a model trained on the SVHN dataset, which consists
of color images of digits taken from house numbers. The
model begins to struggle to generate these kinds of color
digits. When trained on CIFAR-10, which is a more complex
--- PAGE 362 ---
dataset containing a diverse set of realistic object images,
the model generates very low-quality images, showing its
limitations in handling more complex data distributions.
Figure 7.4 Illustration of unbiased samples
generated by the NICE model when trained on the
SVHN dataset (subfigure c) and on the CIFAR-10
dataset (subfigure d).
Source: Dinh, Krueger, and Bengio (2015).
In the accompanying notebook for this chapter ([NICE
Notebook]), we implement and test the NICE coupling flow
with custom architectures for generating equity financial
data, which can be easily customized for your own
applications. Additionally, we include experimental results
to demonstrate the performance and practical applications
of this approach.
--- PAGE 363 ---
7.5.2 Real-NVP: Non-volume Preserving
Transformation
The Non-volume Preserving Transformation (Real-NVP)
introduced by Dinh et al. (2017) proposes a new kind of
invertible layer that enhances the model’s expressiveness.
In particular, this model’s Jacobian determinant is not
constant, allowing for greater flexibility. Similar to the
NICE model, in Real-NVP, they partition the vectors and
into two parts, namely and
. The proposed invertible layer
(coupling function) is defined as follows:
(7.12)
where stands for the element-wise product, and and
are neural network layers that can be implemented
using architectures such as MLPs, CNNs, or other designs
tailored to your specific problem. As defined in Equation
7.12, Real-NVP uses an affine coupling function, which is
by definition an invertible transformation with parameters
given by . This can be interpreted as a
scale and location transformation of the second partition of
.
To recover the vector from , we apply a transformation
similar to that used in the NICE model:
(7.13)
Given this mapping, we can derive the Jacobian, which is
given by:
--- PAGE 364 ---
(7.14)
The Jacobian is triangular, so its determinant is the product
of diagonal entries:
(7.15)
Here we can see that the determinant of the Jacobian is not
constant, allowing for the rescaling of the base measure
and enabling greater expressiveness for the model to fit
very complex data distributions. This makes the Real-NVP
model more expressive compared to the NICE model.
Once again, as an illustrative example of how this performs
on simple image data, Figure 7.5 shows samples generated
by the RealNVP model, see Dinh et al. (2017). The authors
of the paper present results of a RealNVP model trained on
various datasets: CIFAR-10, ImageNet (32 × 32), ImageNet
(64 × 64), CelebA, and LSUN (bedroom). In each pair of
columns, the left column shows examples from the dataset,
while the right column displays samples generated by the
model trained on that dataset.
--- PAGE 365 ---
Figure 7.5 Samples generated by the Real-NVP
model across four datasets: CIFAR-10, ImageNet
(32 × 32), ImageNet (64 × 64), CelebA, and LSUN
(bedroom). For each dataset (subfigures), the left
column shows real examples, while the right column
displays samples generated by the model trained on
the respective dataset.
Source: Dinh, Sohl-Dickstein, and Bengio (2017).
The authors of this work employed a multi-scale
architecture, as described in Section 3.6 of Dinh et al.
(2017). This architecture incorporates a sequence of
coupling-squeezing-coupling layers, utilizing deep
convolutional residual networks within the coupling
transformations. For a more detailed explanation of the
--- PAGE 366 ---
architecture used in the original experiments, we
encourage readers to refer to the work by Dinh et al.
(2017).
As observed, this model can generate much more realistic
samples, including images of various objects, bedrooms,
natural scenes, and human faces.
Another interesting aspect demonstrated in the RealNVP
paper is the model’s ability for representation learning.
Recall from the beginning of the chapter that one limitation
of these models being invertible is that the dimensions of
the latent variable and the observed variable must be
the same, with being high dimensional. Normally, we
prefer the latent dimension to be lower than the data
dimension, as in the VAEs studied in Chapter 6, to provide
a compressed representation of the input data.
In Figure 7.6, the authors showcase Real-NVP’s ability to
capture a useful representation of the data in the latent
space. This figure shows new images generated by
interpolations in the latent space between four examples
for different datasets. The datasets used, in clockwise order
from the top left, are CelebA, ImageNet (64 × 64), LSUN
(tower), and LSUN (bedroom).
--- PAGE 367 ---
Figure 7.6 Illustration of new images generated
through interpolations between four examples from
the dataset. The datasets used are, in clockwise
order from the top left: CelebA, ImageNet (64 × 64),
LSUN (tower), and LSUN (bedroom).
Source: Dinh, Sohl-Dickstein, and Bengio (2017).
For each dataset, four examples are placed at the corners
of each subimage, and the interpolations between them are
generated. The results suggest that even if the latent space
is high dimensional, the model still learns an interesting
structure, where similar images in the data space are also
close in the latent space. This indicates that the model is
capturing a meaningful and semantic representation that
goes beyond simple pixel-space interpolation.
To further test whether the latent space has a consistent
semantic interpretation, the authors trained a class-
conditional model on the CelebA dataset. They found that
the learned representation had a consistent semantic
meaning across class labels, as described in Dinh et al.
(2017).
In the accompanying notebook for this chapter ([RealNVP
Notebook]), we implement and test the Real-NVP coupling
--- PAGE 368 ---
flow with custom architectures for generating equity
financial data, which can be easily customized for your own
applications. We will discuss how to extend these models to
capture temporal dependencies in Section 7.8, along with
an application to financial data in Section 7.8.3.
In the following sections, we will briefly introduce two
additional approaches for constructing flows:
Autoregressive Flows and Continuous Normalizing
Flows.
7.6 Autoregressive Flows
Another type of flow model is known as Autoregressive
Flows, which are, in fact, one of the first classes of flows
developed (see Papamakarios et al. [2021]). These flows
are motivated by the idea that the joint distribution over
can be factorized into a product of one-dimensional
conditional probability distributions using the chain rule, as
introduced in Chapter 5 on autoregressive models. By
parameterizing each conditional distribution, these factors
form the basis of a normalizing flow known as the Masked
Autoregressive Flow (MAF) (see Papamakarios et al.
[2017]; Bishop and Bishop [2023]).
Some of our experiments in Section 7.8 will incorporate
MAF flows as building blocks in a model’s architecture.
Regarding the modeling flexibility of Autoregressive flows,
an interesting result, presented in Papamakarios et al.
(2021), shows that all autoregressive models for continuous
variables can be interpreted as autoregressive flows with a
single autoregressive layer. If you want to know more
about this result, refer to Papamakarios et al. (2021) for
further details.
--- PAGE 369 ---
7.7 Continuous Normalizing Flows
Another type of flow model is known as Continuous
Normalizing Flows, which take a different approach to
define the mapping from to . In the previous sections,
we discussed constructing flows by parameterizing a
function and applying a finite sequence of
transformations (e.g., coupling layers in Real-NVP) to
transform the base measure into a more complex
distribution .
In contrast, Continuous Normalizing Flows view the
mapping from to as a continuous process. Instead of
applying a finite number of discrete transformations, the
transformation can be thought of, loosely speaking, as
applying an “infinite number of infinitesimal
transformations.” This process is mathematically described
by a Neural Ordinary Differential Equation (Neural
ODE). In this framework, the flow is defined by an ODE,
and during the learning process, the parameters of the
ODE are learned from the data, rather than learning the
parameters of individual discrete flows, as in the previous
cases we studied. Continuous Normalizing Flows can be
used to generate the complex continuous stochastic
process of financial data (see Deng et al. [2020]). For more
details on Continuous Normalizing Flows, we encourage
the reader to take a look at Chen et al. (2018) and
Papamakarios et al. (2021).
--- PAGE 370 ---
7.8 Modeling Financial Time Series
with Flow Models
7.8.1 Transitioning from Image Data to Time-
series Dynamics
In earlier sections, we introduced two flow models, NICE
and Real-NVP. These models create flows that are
differentiable, invertible, and allow for quick computation
of log-likelihoods. The efficiency in log-likelihood
computation is mainly due to the structure imposed in
these flows, which simplifies the computation of the
determinant of the Jacobian. While so far we had used
image data as examples to demonstrate the capacity of
these models to approximate complex data distributions
(and to highlight the field where these models were
originally developed), flows are not restricted to this
domain and can be used whenever we need to model
complex probability distributions. They can be extended to
other areas, such as time-series modeling, unlocking new
modeling opportunities.
To transition into time series, we can start by simply giving
another interpretation to the data . Instead of thinking as
as a vector of pixel intensities for the -th image in our
dataset, we can think of as a vector representing
multivariate time series at time . Each component or
“dimension” might correspond to a variable, such as the
returns of a given stock at time , with the vector
providing a snapshot of the cross-sectional returns at that
time. For simplicity, we will use to index time instead of ,
as it is more intuitive in the context of time series.
In this setup, flows like NICE or Real-NVP can model the
cross-sectional relationships (i.e., correlations) among the
--- PAGE 371 ---
time series at time . However, by design, these
architectures assume independence between consecutive
observations. Recall how sampling works in standard flow
models: to generate the observations , we sample from
the base measure, apply the flow to it to produce , and
repeat this process for every . This assumption of
independence can limit the performance of these models at
certain time scales, where dependencies between
observations may be significant.
7.8.2 Adapting Flows for Time Series
Conventional flows like NICE and Real-NVP are good at
modeling cross-sectional dynamics but impose
independence between observations by design. This might
not be enough for modeling financial time series at certain
time granularities, where past prices/returns, market
conditions, and other factors significantly impact future
prices/returns.
So, how can we adapt flows to capture the temporal
dynamics (dependencies over time) present in the data we
want to model? Here are a few ideas:
1. Latent state dynamics: Introduce temporal
dependencies into the latent variables, such that
depends on past latent variables either
deterministically or stochastically.
This mirrors the idea behind models like the Kalman
filter, or RNN, where latent states depends on the
previous latent space.
--- PAGE 372 ---
2. AR-style dependencies: Extend the generative process
to depend on past observations, making a function of
both the latent variable and previous observations
where is a function that can encode the effect of past
observations on . This approach mirrors with
autoregressive models.
3. Hybrid approaches: Combine the two methods,
allowing to depend both of past observations and
past latent variables
where encodes the effect of past observations and
the effect of past latent variables.
4. Time-varying flows: allow the flow to vary with time .
7.8.3 Case Study: A Practical Example—
Conditioned Normalizing Flows
To demonstrate these ideas, let’s explore practical
implementations of flows adapted for modeling time-series
dynamic. One notable example is presented in the paper
Multivariate Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting via
Conditioned Normalizing Flows (Rasul et al., 2021). In this
work, the authors use Real-NVP flows but adapt them to
handle temporal dependencies. They key idea is to
condition the flow transformation on a hidden state ,
which encodes information about the past:
--- PAGE 373 ---
So, how do we get ? The authors explore two approaches.
1. RNN-based hidden state: the first option is to use an
RNN (like an LSTM or GRU) to summarize past
observations and covariates into :
Here includes any additional covariates (i.e., in
financial time series think like additional market indicators
or macroeconomic variables, or categorical variables).
2. Transformer-based hidden state: The second option is
to use an encoder-decoder transformer architecture.
Here, the encoder embeds the past observations and
covariates, while the decoder generates the hidden
states for the flow.
As we know, both RNNs and Transformers are effective at
modeling sequential data, with Transformers being
particularly better than RNN for capturing long-range
dependencies.
At this point, you might notice that we are only limited by
our creativity when designing architectures to capture
temporal dynamics with flows. This is another example of
how the building blocks we’ve covered in previous chapters
come together—combining flows with powerful sequential
models like RNNs or Transformers to achieve the same
goal.
Exploring examples like this one can bring to life many
ideas for customizing your own solutions. You might
consider training the model differently, adding or removing
components, or adapting the architecture to better fit your
specific needs.
--- PAGE 374 ---
7.8.3.1 Importance of Domain Knowledge in Financial
Time Series.
In financial time-series modeling, incorporating domain
knowledge during the modeling process is critical. This
field is well known for its low signal-to-noise ratio and non-
stationarity is all over the place, which violates the core
assumptions of independence and identical distribution that
underlie most machine learning solutions. These challenges
make it difficult to achieve good results with generic
models.
This means that most of the time we can’t simply throw a
generic model at the data and expect great outcomes in
this domain. Who knows—perhaps in the near future,
maybe even a few months after this book is published, this
might change. For now, let’s focus on customizing our
solutions to the specific problem at hand so we can extract
valuable insights and, hopefully, some profit.
In the accompanying notebook for this chapter, we explore
these ideas using the Exchange Rate dataset, which
contains daily exchange rates for the currencies of eight
countries (Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada,
Switzerland, China, Japan, New Zealand, and Singapore)
from 1990 to 2016. We will walk through the main
components of the implementation and discuss variations in
the architecture and its performance on other datasets.
7.9 Conclusion
In this chapter, we have seen how flow models are a
powerful addition to our toolbox for handling high-
dimensional data. They combine the fast sampling
capabilities of traditional latent variable models with the
key advantage of exact likelihood computation. By
--- PAGE 375 ---
designing flows with the right structure, we can make
computations like the determinant of the log Jacobian very
efficient, which is a key element for likelihood computation.
We also explored how to extend flows to capture temporal
dependencies. This opens up opportunities to combine flow
models with architectures that we know excels at this task,
such as autoregressive models based on RNN and
Transformers, both of which work great at modeling
sequential data.
By mastering flow models, you add a flexible and efficient
tool to your modeling toolbox, giving you another great
option for modeling high-dimensional multimodal data.
--- PAGE 376 ---
Chapter 8
Generative Adversarial Networks
In previous chapters, we explored modeling high-
dimensional complex data distributions using
Autoregressive Models, Variational AutoEncoders (VAEs),
and Flow Models. While each of these models has its
advantages and disadvantages in terms of computing
densities—whether exactly or through approximations,
sampling efficiency, and representation learning—they all
share a common characteristic: they are likelihood-based
models. This means they use Maximum Likelihood
Estimation (MLE) as the primary approach for learning
their parameters. In the generative learning literature,
these kinds of models are known as explicit models.
In this chapter, we will delve into a different approach for
learning generative models, referred to as implicit models
in the literature, as shown in Figure 8.1. These models do
not require the ability to compute the probability density.
This chapter will focus on Generative Adversarial Networks
(GANs) as a prominent example of implicit models, with a
training process that focuses on generating high-quality
realistic high-dimensional samples rather than performing
density estimation.
--- PAGE 377 ---
Figure 8.1 Model taxonomy: GANs.
8.1 Introduction
In previous chapters, we discussed the primary goals of
generative models: to build models for high-dimensional
data that can accomplish the following:
Compute probability densities
Perform representation learning (identifying hidden
structures)
Generate new samples
Choosing a single metric that measures the quality all these
objectives can be challenging. A specific metric or training
objective might be good for representation learning but not
for generating high-quality samples, for example. However,
intuitively, if a model can closely approximate the data
distribution, it should, in theory, perform well in the other
tasks. Model families like Autoregressive Models, VAEs,
and Flow Models use this principle and during the learning
--- PAGE 378 ---
process, try to align the model distribution as closely as
possible to the data distribution. This alignment ensures
that the resulting model is not only a good density
estimator but also provides useful hidden structures and
high-quality samples. All these model families propose a
tractable or approximate density model class such that the
learning can be based on Maximum Likelihood Estimation,
which we saw is equivalent to minimizing the Kullback-
Leibler divergence between the data distribution and the
model distribution.
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), on the other
hand, focus their training process on producing a model
that can generate high-quality samples without the need to
compute density estimation explicitly. The inventor of
GANs, Ian Goodfellow, described his solution in his paper
(Goodfellow et al., 2014), detailing how this can be
achieved. His very clever idea is to use a different neural
network, called the discriminator, whose sole task is to
score whether an observation sample has been generated
by the data distribution or by the model distribution and to
use this signal provided by the discriminator to improve the
model distribution. The model distribution is called the
generator in GAN terminology. Ideally, a good generator
will produce samples such that one cannot distinguish
between the distribution generated by the model and the
actual data distribution.
Yann LeCun who received the 2018 Turing Award, together
with Yoshua Bengio and Geoffrey Hinton, for their work on
deep learning, declared GANs to be “the most interesting
idea in the last 10 years in machine learning.” As a
historical note, Ian Goodfellow conceived generative
adversarial networks while brainstorming programming
techniques with friends at a bar. For more details, read the
interview at https://www.deeplearning.ai/the-batch/ian-
goodfellow-a-man-a-plan-a-gan/.
--- PAGE 379 ---
Similar to VAEs or Flow Models, in GANs, the sampling
process for the generator consists of first sampling a latent
variable from a prior distribution , which is chosen to
be easy to sample from, and then mapping the latent
variable space to the observation or data space using the
generator, denoted by and parameterized by . This
mapping can be either probabilistic or deterministic. For a
deterministic mapping , sampling can be computed very
efficiently, as in Flow Models. The sampling process in
GANs is given by:
(8.1)
A key difference from Flow Models is that, because we are
not using the density for model learning, the generator can
be any neural network. There is no requirement that the
mapping be invertible, and the dimensions of the latent
variable and the observations can be different, as in
VAEs, which can provide interesting learned
representations.
Unlike Flow Models, where we train only the encoder or
flow, GANs require learning the parameters of two
different models simultaneously: the generator neural
network and the discriminator neural network, denoted
by and parameterized by .
The big-picture idea of what happens during training is the
following. We train the discriminator, which is a binary
classifier that classifies real data (generated by the data
distribution), versus fake data (generated by the
generator), optimizing its parameters to get better at
discriminating these classes. To train the discriminator, we
build the “real dataset,” denoted by , by collecting real
data related to our application (e.g., images of faces) and
--- PAGE 380 ---
assigning the target label true or positive (or 1) to all of
them. We build the “fake dataset,” denoted by , by
randomly initializing the generator , sampling a number
of images, and assigning the target label false or negative
(or 0) to all of them. With the combined dataset
, we train the discriminator . Once the
discriminator is trained, we use the signal provided by the
discriminator as a loss function to train , and iterate.
Thus, the GAN training process involves a game where the
discriminator tries to get better at classifying real versus
fake data, and the generator tries to get better at fooling
the discriminator into classifying fake data as real. This is
the adversarial part of the game, which can eventually
reach an equilibrium called the Nash Equilibrium.
GANs are known for generating very high-quality high-
dimensional images. In Figure 8.2, we see a progression of
samples generated by GANs over a span of 4.5 years, from
the original work by Goodfellow et al. (2014) in 2014 to
2018. However, GANs are known to be difficult to train. In
the following sections, we will delve into more details about
the training process and what GANs are actually learning.
The following exposition was inspired by the style
presented in Levine (2021).
--- PAGE 381 ---
Figure 8.2 Evolution of GAN-generated images over
time, illustrating the progressive improvement in
image generation. This figure is adapted from a
tutorial by Ian Goodfellow titled “Ian Goodfellow:
Adversarial Machine Learning” at ICLR 2019. The
image is sourced from a screenshot taken at the
6:47 mark of the presentation.
Source: Ian Goodfellow: Adversarial Machine Learning (ICLR 2019
invited talk) / https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sucqskXRkss / / last
accessed on January 17, 2025.
8.2 Training
Training GANs involves solving a two-player game between
the discriminator and the generator, as described in the
original formulation by Goodfellow et al. (2014). The goal is
to solve the following min-max optimization problem:
--- PAGE 382 ---
(8.2)
where the objective function is given by:
(8.3)
In this formulation, represents the loss function of
the discriminator , which takes an input and outputs the
probability that it belongs to the true dataset (real
observations). This loss function has the form of a typical
cross-entropy loss (negative log likelihood) used in binary
classification problems (see Murphy [2022]; López de
Prado, 2018), where the goal in this particular case is to
distinguish real from fake data. The discriminator aims to
maximize this objective, while the generator aims to
minimize it, creating and adversarial training dynamic. The
discriminator seeks to maximize the log-likelihood of real
data (positive labels) and the log-likelihood of fake data
(negative labels). Thus, in the previous equation, the first
expectation is taken with respect to the distribution of real
data, , and the second expectation is taken with
respect to the latent variable distribution, . which is used
to generate the fake dataset.
These expectations are approximated using sample-based
estimators. The objective function can be approximated by:
(8.4)
where . In most practical applications, the
number of negative samples is set equal to the number
--- PAGE 383 ---
of positive samples, , making the discriminator’s binary
classification problem balanced.
To solve the min-max problem, we need to find the
gradients with respect to and of the objective function.
For the discriminator, we need the gradient with respect to
:
(8.5)
For the generator, the gradient with respect to is:
(8.6)
Once the gradients are computed, we update the
parameters using stochastic gradient ascent in the
discriminator, and stochastic gradient descent on the
generator:
(8.7)
where and are the learning rates for the
discriminator and the generator, respectively.
An interesting aspect is the computation of the gradients
for the generator. While the discriminator’s gradient
computation is straightforward, the generator’s gradient
--- PAGE 384 ---
requires backpropagating through the discriminator. If we
denote , then:
(8.8)
This indicates that we are backpropagating the gradients
through the discriminator to the generator. In practice, we
concatenate the generator and the discriminator as a
compose function, , and our favorite automatic
differentiation tool will compute the entire gradient
efficiently.
The typical training procedure for GANs involves the
following steps:
1. Obtain a true dataset and label each
observation as real (positive label).
2. Initialize the Generator randomly.
3. Generate a fake dataset, , by sampling from
the generator, , , and label each
observation as fake (negative label).
--- PAGE 385 ---
4. Combine the true and fake datasets to create a
combined dataset .
5. Optimize the discriminator using the
combined dataset with one step of stochastic
gradient ascent.
6. Optimize the generator using the feedback signal
from the discriminator with one step of stochastic
gradient descent.
7. Repeat steps 3 to 6 until convergence.
By alternative updating the discriminator and the
generator, we train the GAN to improve the quality of the
generated data, making it increasingly difficult for the
discriminator to distinguish between real and fake data
more difficult.
In Figure 8.3, we show samples generated as illustrated in
the original work by Goodfellow et al. (2014). At that time,
the sample quality was at least competitive with the best
generative models available, as noted by the authors. In
Figure 8.3, the rightmost column shows the nearest
training example to the neighboring sample, demonstrating
that the model has not memorized the training set. This is
illustrated for the following datasets: (a) MNIST, (b) TFD,
(c) CIFAR-10 (fully connected model), and (d) CIFAR-10
(convolutional discriminator and “deconvolutional”
generator). For more details, see Goodfellow et al. (2014).
--- PAGE 386 ---
Figure 8.3 The rightmost column displays the
nearest training example to each corresponding
generated sample, demonstrating that the model
has not memorized the training set. This is
illustrated for the following datasets: (a) MNIST, (b)
TFD, (c) CIFAR-10 (fully connected model), and (d)
CIFAR-10 (convolutional discriminator and
“deconvolutional” generator).
Source: I. J. Goodfellow et al. (2014).
8.2.1 Evaluation
The evaluation of GANs is still an open problem. Since we
cannot compute the density explicitly, and the
discriminator probability score is used to drive the
generator to create data that are similar to the data
distribution, this score for a given observation does not
--- PAGE 387 ---
provide much insight into the quality of the generated
samples. This is especially important when we want to
compare models. One initial solution was to use Parzen
window-based log-likelihood estimates, also known as
Kernel Density Estimation (KDE), as a replacement for
likelihoods. More details about KDE can be found in Bishop
(2006).
The Figure 8.4 shows the Parzen window-based log-
likelihood on the original work on GANs, allowing for a
quantifiable model comparison rather than simply
eyeballing the generated images. They reported numbers
on MNIST and TFD datasets for different generated
models.
Figure 8.4 Table 1 from Goodfellow et al. (2014):
Parzen window-based log-likelihood estimates. The
reported values for MNIST represent the mean log-
likelihood of test set samples, with the standard
error of the mean computed across individual
examples.
More evaluation metrics have been proposed in the
literature to better account for the coverage of the
generated samples. One such metric is the Inception Score,
see Salimans et al. (2016), which utilizes the Inception
neural network to classify images and evaluate the quality
of conditional generation with GANs. Improvements over
the Inception Score include the Frechet Inception Distance
(FID), which aims to improve the measurement of diversity
by incorporating statistics of the images in a different
--- PAGE 388 ---
embedding space. More details about the FID distance can
be found in Heusel et al. (2018).
8.3 Some Theoretical Insight in GANs
We have already seen that the training of GANs requires
solving a min-max two-player game between the generator
and the discriminator. From the objective function, the task
for each model is clear: the discriminator maximizes the
likelihood of the data, while the generator tries to fool the
discriminator by minimizing the same objective function.
However, since we are interested in the quality of the
generated samples, we can ask ourselves the following
question: Are GANs trained with the aforementioned
procedure trying to optimize some kind of divergence
between the data distribution and the generator
distribution ?
To answer this, let’s perform a theoretical exercise to solve
for the optimal discriminator and generator and see if we
can gain some insights. Although we do not train GANs
using the exact procedure to be described here, this
exercise provides valuable insights that have been used in
practice to improve the training and performance of GANs.
Let’s solve for the optimal classifier. Given our objective:
(8.9)
what can we say about at convergence? Let’s see if we
can find a closed-form solution for . We can rewrite
Equation 8.9 as follows:
--- PAGE 389 ---
(8.10)
Here, we simplify our notation and optimize over functions
and instead of optimizing over parameters and .
We also replace by , the distribution of the true
dataset, and let represent the distribution used to
generate our fake dataset, with .
Let’s solve for the optimal discriminator :
(8.11)
To find the optimal value of , we compute the gradient
with respect to and set it equal to zero:
(8.12)
Setting and solving for , we find that optimal
value is:
(8.13)
where is replaced by , to indicate that the negative
labels are generated from the generator distribution, .
Now, if we plug the optimal value of into the objective
function, we can determine what the generator is trying
to optimize:
--- PAGE 390 ---
(8.14)
Let . Then
(8.15)
where is the Jensen-Shannon Divergence.
Thus, at convergence, the generator minimizes a notion of
distance between the data distribution and the
generator distribution . This insight has led to modern
approaches that address both the drawbacks and
advantages of minimizing this divergence, proposing better
alternatives for training GANs.
8.4 Why Is GAN Training Hard?
Improving GAN Training Techniques
Training GANs in practice is challenging. Implementing
GANs as described in the original work by Goodfellow et al.
(2014) requires an enormous amount of hyperparameter
tuning to achieve convergence and generate high-quality
samples.
For example, the paper by Salimans et al. (2016) illustrates
the extensive hyperparameter tuning required and some of
--- PAGE 391 ---
the techniques used to make GANs work effectively. These
techniques include minibatch discrimination, feature
matching, historical averaging, and others, which are
applicable to either the generator, the discriminator, or
both. For more details, see Salimans et al. (2016).
One reason why training GANs is difficult can be
understood by examining a simple example, illustrated in
Figure 8.5. For the sake of simplicity, we generate samples
from both the data distribution and the generator,
overlaying the corresponding density functions and
assuming this is the initial data for training. At
initialization, with a random generator, the densities and
samples generated from and are far apart. If we
train the discriminator with the combined dataset
using the true data and the fake data
from these samples, the discriminator can easily achieve
perfect classification. This results in a very sharp decision
boundary, saturated at 1 for samples from and 0 for
samples generated by .
--- PAGE 392 ---
Figure 8.5 Illustration of one reason why training
GANs can be difficult. In this conceptual
illustration, at initialization, the data distribution
and the generator distribution are far apart,
allowing the discriminator to achieve perfect
classification. This results in a sharp decision
boundary, where the discriminator outputs 1 for
real samples and 0 for generated samples, making it
challenging for the generator to receive meaningful
gradient updates.
As the generator learns by backpropagating the complete
gradients of the discriminator, in situations where the
discriminator is saturated, it provides very poor gradient
signals to the generator for almost all the points that are
generated from . This makes it almost impossible for the
generator to improve the quality of the generated samples.
In short, one of the main reasons why GAN training is hard
is that the discriminator might provide a very weak
gradient signal, if the data distribution and the generator
distribution are very far apart.
--- PAGE 393 ---
To improve this situation where and are very far
apart, we aim to have a smoother decision boundary for the
discriminator. This would provide meaningful signals to
drive the training of the generator and improve the quality
of the generated samples. Solutions around this point
include explicitly modifying the discriminator to have a
smoother decision boundary or making the samples from
and overlap, making it more difficult for the
discriminator to classify them. Instance noise, as described
by Mescheder et al. (2018), is a method where noise is
added to both real and fake samples to make their
distributions overlap, making the classification task harder
for the discriminator and resulting in a smoother decision
boundary.
Techniques for explicitly modifying the decision boundary
include Least Squares Generative Adversarial Networks
(LSGANs), as described by Mao et al. (2017), where the
discriminator outputs an unbounded real number instead of
a probability, a real number between 0 and 1. Other
solutions involve using different objective functions to force
the discriminator to have a smoother decision boundary.
The main solution proposed in Wasserstein GANs (WGANs),
as described in Arjovsky et al. (2017), constrains the
discriminator to be Lipschitz-continuous. Further solutions
for making the decision boundary even smoother include
WGAN with Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP) by Gulrajani et
al. (2017) and Spectral Normalization GAN (SNGAN) by
Miyato et al. (2018).
For detailed analysis of convergence and different training
techniques for GANs, refer to the paper by Mescheder et
al. (2018).
--- PAGE 394 ---
8.5 Wasserstein GAN (WGAN)
From Section 8.3, we got the intuition that the generator is
trying to minimize the Jensen-Shannon (JS) divergence
between the data distribution and the generator
distribution. However, the JS divergence is not effective at
capturing the distance between distributions when they are
very far apart or have little to no overlap.
To illustrate this, consider Figure 8.6. In the top figure, the
distributions and are very far apart with zero
overlap. In the bottom figure, and are closer but
still do not overlap. Ideally, we want to drive the generator
distribution closer to , and between these two
options, we would prefer the generator from the bottom
figure. However, the JS divergence assigns the same score
to both situations since there is no overlap between the two
distributions, which poses a problem for training the
generator effectively.
--- PAGE 395 ---
Figure 8.6 Illustration of two different cases for the
data distribution and the generator distribution. In
Figure (a), the distributions are far apart, whereas
in Figure (b), they are closer. Despite this
difference, the JS divergence assigns the same score
to both cases.
An improvement to this situation could be to use a different
divergence measure that actually quantifies the distance
between two distributions. One candidate is the
Wasserstein distance, which is used to optimize GANs as
proposed by Arjovsky et al. (2017).
The Wasserstein distance is defined as:
(8.16)
where is the distribution over and that satisfies the
marginals and .
Directly optimizing this formulation of is
complicated because finding the optimal is not an easy
--- PAGE 396 ---
task. However, there is a dual formulation known as the
Kantorovich-Rubinstein duality, which makes the problem
more tractable:
(8.17)
This is equal to the supremum over the set of all possible 1-
Lipschitz functions , of the expected value of under
minus the expected value of under . The set of all
possible 1-Lipschitz scalar functions satisfies:
(8.18)
which means roughly speaking that should have a
bounded gradient or slope.
Returning to our example, if is our discriminator neural
network parameterized by , how can we constrain the
network to be 1-Lipschitz, or equivalently, to have a
bounded gradient? The original solution proposed by
Arjovsky et al. (2017) involves clipping the weights of the
network to ensure the gradient is bounded. However, the
paper’s authors clearly mentioned that weight clipping is
probably not the best way to enforce this constraint and
illustrated many problems with it. In fact, at the time of
writing, gradient clipping for achieving this constraint is
mostly obsolete. Other works build on this idea to enforce a
Lipschitz-continuous neural network, such as WGAN with
Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP) by Gulrajani et al. (2017) and
Spectral Normalization GAN (SNGAN) by Miyato et al.
(2018).
Once we constrain the search space of functions to the set
of 1-Lipschitz functions, we can use the sample-based
objective to find the optimal discriminator and generator:
--- PAGE 397 ---
(8.19)
We approximate using sample-based
estimators:
(8.20)
We can then optimize by taking gradients with respect to
and .
The pseudo code for training WGANs is as follows (adapted
from Levine (2021)):
1. Obtain a true dataset and label each
observation as real (positive label).
2. Initialize the Generator randomly.
3. Generate a fake dataset, , by sampling from
the generator, , , and label each
observation as fake (negative label).
4. Combine the true and fake datasets to create a
combined dataset .
5. Update the discriminator to maximize .
Compute and use stochastic gradient
ascent.
6. Clip all weights matrices in such that each weight
matrix layer, denoted by , is within for some
constant .
--- PAGE 398 ---
7. Update the generator to minimize .
Compute the gradients
and use
stochastic gradient descent.
8. Repeat steps 3 to 7 until convergence.
In Figure 8.7, we see the results from Figure 2 in the paper
by Arjovsky et al. (2017). This figure illustrates the effect of
the Wasserstein distance on optimizing GANs, particularly
highlighting the decision boundary obtained by the
discriminator. In Figure 8.7, the decision boundary of the
discriminator for typical vanilla GANs is labeled “GAN
Discriminator” in red, optimized using the two-player min-
max game. The decision boundary for the WGAN, labeled
“WGAN Critic” in cyan, shows a much smoother boundary,
providing better gradient signals for the generator and
improving the training process.
--- PAGE 399 ---
Figure 8.7 Illustration of the optimal discriminator
and critic when distinguishing two Gaussians. The
minimax GAN discriminator (red) saturates, leading
to vanishing gradients, while the WGAN critic
(cyan) provides smoother gradients, improving
generator training. Figure 2 from Arjovsky,
Chintala, and Bottou (2017).
8.5.1 Gradient Penalty GAN (WGAN-GP)
As mentioned, another way to enforce Lipschitz constraints
in a neural network is to directly constrain the gradient,
which is the approach proposed in WGAN with Gradient
Penalty (WGAN-GP) by Gulrajani et al. (2017).
In their work, they modified the original WGAN objective
by introducing a gradient penalty for Lipschitz continuity,
given by:
--- PAGE 400 ---
(8.21)
where the gradient penalty term is the last term of the
previous equation. Here, the objective function directly
penalizes the discriminator for having gradients with norms
different from one, using the regularization parameter .
The expectation is computed under the distribution , for
which samples are generated by sampling uniformly along
straight lines between pairs of points sampled from the
data distribution and the generator distribution .
For more details, see Gulrajani et al. (2017). In practice,
WGAN-GP improves the stability of WGAN training and is
very easy to implement.
A detailed analysis of the convergence of different GAN
training algorithms can be found in Mescheder et al.
(2018).
8.6 Extending GANs for Time Series
Similarly, as we have seen in previous chapters with
models like VAEs, and Flows, these models, by their
structural design, assume independence between
consecutive observations. Then, the natural questions arise,
how can we adapt them to capture this time-series
dynamics that might be important at certain time scales?
One potential answer is similar to the way we have done it
previous chapters. We could try to combine GANs with
models that excel at handling the kind of dynamics we want
to capture, such as autoregressive models like RNN or
Transformers.
--- PAGE 401 ---
Let's consider two interesting cases for time-series
generation.
Recurrent Conditional GAN (RCGAN), see Esteban et
al. (2017): Uses a combination of RNN with GAN. It
uses an RNN for the generator and discriminators. Due
to this design choice, data are generated sequentially.
More details about model architecture and
experimental results are in [RCGAN Notebook].
Time-series Generative Adversarial Networks
(TimeGAN), see Yoon et al. (2019): TimeGAN employs a
sequence generator and discriminator to model time-
series dynamics. However, it does that by modeling the
temporal dependencies in the latent space. They do
that by combining supervised learning objectives as
well as generative adversarial objectives in a jointly
optimization problem. The supervised learning
objective drives the network to capture the dynamics in
the latent space. The adversarial objective, like in
standard GANs, drives the network to generate realistic
samples. More details about model architecture and
experimental results are in [TimeGAN Notebook].
8.7 Conclusion
In this chapter, we explored another powerful tool for
modeling high-dimensional data—GANs. Unlike the models
studied in previous chapters, GANs belong to the class of
implicit generative models, meaning they do not require
explicit density estimation. Instead, they rely on an
adversarial learning process in which two models—the
generator and the discriminator—are trained
simultaneously in an adversarial framework. Unlike flow
models, the GAN generator can be any neural network,
--- PAGE 402 ---
with no constraints on invertibility or matching
dimensionality between the latent variable and
observations. This flexibility allows GANs to learn complex
representations and generate high-quality samples. We also
discussed key challenges in training GANs and explored
strategies to improve their stability and performance.
Additionally, we examined how GANs can be extended to
model sequential data, particularly time series. By
integrating GANs with architectures specialized for
capturing temporal dependencies—such as RNNs—we can
generate sequential data with time-dependent dynamics. In
the notebooks associated with this chapter, you will find
practical examples of both traditional GANs and time-
series-adapted GANs applied to financial data generation.
With this chapter, you have added yet another powerful
tool to your generative modeling toolbox. GANs provide a
flexible and effective approach for generating high-
dimensional, multimodal data.
--- PAGE 403 ---
Chapter 9
Leveraging LLMs for Sentiment
Analysis in Trading
In this chapter, we pivot from our previous discussions,
where we focused on studying different generative model
families in isolation, to explore and build a practical financial
application that combines these models. The goal is to create
a system that takes speech data as input and outputs trading
signals. This system leverages powerful models, such as
transformer models for sequence-to-sequence tasks to
convert audio signals to text, and transformer models in
Large Language Models (LLMs) to assign sentiment scores to
text. We will apply these techniques to analyze the sentiment
of Federal Reserve (Fed) press conference speeches and
generate potentially profitable trading signals.
9.1 Sentiment Analysis in Fed Press
Conference Speeches Using Large
Language Models
Is it possible to use sentiment analysis on Federal Reserve
press conference speeches, computed using LLMs, to
generate predictive trading signals?
Let’s imagine a scenario where we are watching US Federal
Reserve Chair Jerome Powell hold a press conference on
November 2, 2022, where he is discussing the latest Fed rate
hike and communicating the committee’s current economic
outlook, as shown in Figure 9.1 (WGN News, 2022).
--- PAGE 404 ---
Figure 9.1 Fed Chair Powell discusses latest Fed rate
hike.
Source: WGN News (2022).
As traders, we might wonder how to use the information
provided in such a speech to make informed trading
decisions. If you were someone like George Soros, known for
his exceptional trading skills and remarkable track record in
macro trading, you might be able to filter the relevant
information from the speech, converting it into insights that
you can combine with other data, such as market data, to
predict the market’s next moves easily.
However, for those of us without Soros’ insights, a more
quantitative approach could be helpful. This approach
requires converting segments of the video into numerical
values from which we can generate buy or sell signals. Our
approach has been inspired by reports on JPMorgan AI’s
analysis of Fed speeches for trading signals from Bloomberg
--- PAGE 405 ---
News (2023) and Fortune (2023), as well as an OpenAI
Whisper tutorial on Fed Speech Transcription from Part Time
Larry (2022).
There are several ways to design a system with the goal of
translating video content into actionable trading signals.
Here, we attempt to provide a solution based on a cascade
approach that involves a series of subsystems for processing
different datatypes. The whole system takes a segment of the
Fed press conference video as input and outputs a numerical
value representing the sentiment score of that segment. The
design of these subsystems will involve the following:
1. Extracting speech from the video of the Fed press
conference
2. Converting speech segments to text
3. Converting text to numerical values (sentiment scores)
that can generate relevant signals
The system’s block diagram illustrating this process is in
Figure 9.2.
Figure 9.2 System block diagram.
To explore this, we will take a step back and simulate making
decisions based on the press conference and related market
data available to us.
Let’s say we want to design a trading strategy to trade the
SPY in 30-second intervals. In Figure 9.3, we illustrate the
SPY price series during the November 2, 2022, Fed press
conference, from 14:30 to 15:30 in 30-second intervals.
Ideally, we would like to find some kind of correlation
--- PAGE 406 ---
between what Jerome Powell is saying at or up to that
particular moment and the subsequent SPY price moves.
Figure 9.3 SPY Price series during Fed press
conference.
For every 30-second trading bar of SPY data, we would do
the following:
1. Extract audio from the video up to that particular bar.
2. Perform speech-to-text conversion.
3. Perform Sentiment Analysis based on text.
4. Generate signals to make buy and sell decisions.
This process will enrich the SPY open-high-low-close (OHLC)
price series with the sentiment scores of Powell’s speech
during each 30-second interval, making it easier to quantify
the predictive power of the signal. The desired tabular data
format is illustrated in Figure 9.4.
--- PAGE 407 ---
Figure 9.4 Enriched price series.
With this enriched data, we can investigate whether there is
a statistical relationship between the computed sentiment
scores and future returns. In Figure 9.5, we illustrate a
scatter plot for a few Fed press conferences videos that took
place in 2022 and 2023, where the x-axis represents the
sentiment scores and the y-axis represents the SPY forward
returns over the next 30 seconds.
--- PAGE 408 ---
Figure 9.5 Scatter plot of sentiment signal vs forward
returns.
In the rest of the section, we will describe in more detail the
main components of the system, how they work, and how to
put them together. In our experience, using a limited sample
size of videos, we found a significant Pearson correlation of
14.14% between the sentiment signal and forward SPY
return, with a -value of 0.199%.
9.2 Data: Video + Market Prices
In this use case, we utilize video data, extract the
corresponding audio, process it into text, converting the text
into numerical values, and finally joining these numerical
values with market price data for model construction and
evaluation. This approach leverages the unique insights
offered by alternative data sources to enhance trading
strategies and market predictions.
As noted by López de Prado (2018):
--- PAGE 409 ---
Alternative data offers the opportunity to work with truly
unique, hard-to-process datasets. Remember, data that is
hard to store, manipulate, and operate is always the most
promising. You will recognize that a dataset may be useful
if it annoys your data infrastructure team. Perhaps your
competitors did not try to use it for logistic reasons, gave
up midway, or processed it incorrectly.
9.2.1 Collecting Audio Data
For collecting audio data from YouTube, we use the pytube
tool, which is a lightweight, Pythonic, and command-line
utility for downloading YouTube Videos.
Downloading YouTube videos or audios can be easily
achieved using pytube. Once the url of the desired video is
defined, you can use the library as shown below:
from pytube import YouTube
video_url = 'http://youtube.com/watch?v=9bZkp7q19f0'
yt = YouTube(video_url)
yt.streams
.filter(progressive=True, file_extension='mp4')
.order_by('resolution')
.desc()
.first()
.download()
where in the code snippet specified:
We first import the pytube library.
We specify the video url video_url.
We create a YouTube object.
We then filter mp4 file streams, order them by resolution,
and download the highest resolution file.
--- PAGE 410 ---
9.3 Speech-to-text Conversion
9.3.1 Whisper Model
“We’ve trained and are open-sourcing a neural net called
Whisper that approaches human level robustness and
accuracy on English speech recognition.” —Introducing
Whisper (https://openai.com/index/whisper/)
Whisper, Radford et al. (2022), is an automatic speech
recognition (ASR) system trained on 680,000 hours of
multilingual and multitask supervised data collected from the
web. This large-scale dataset enables Whisper to transcribe
in multiple languages and translate from multiple languages
to English. OpenAI has open-sourced Whisper under the MIT
License. According the paper results, Whisper is comparable
to standard benchmark and often competitive with models
that have been finetuned for specific datasets.
In their paper, OpenAI describes various methods for
evaluating and collecting data. The data collected for
Whisper is weakly supervised, meaning it is not annotated by
professional transcribers but instead has labels collected
from the web. To build a dataset for model training
consisting of audio paired with transcripts, the authors
performed a great deal of data engineering work, including
multiple preprocessing and heuristic filtering steps for tasks
like input language detection and transcript alignment, which
are detailed in the paper. Due to the vast amount of data
collected, the dataset is highly diverse, encompassing a wide
range of speakers, languages, and environments. More
details about the Whisper architecture can be found in
Radford et al. (2022).
Whisper processes the input audio by splitting it into 30-
second chunks and converted into a log-magnitude Mel
spectrogram representation, which serves as the input to the
--- PAGE 411 ---
encoder. The decoder is trained to predict the corresponding
text caption, intermixed with special tokens that direct the
model to perform tasks such as language identification,
phrase-level timestamps, multilingual speech transcription,
and translation to English (see “Introducing Whisper” or the
paper for more details).
According to the Whisper model card available in the official
OpenAI GitHub repository for Whisper
(https://github.com/openai/whisper), it comes in five model
sizes, offering different speed and accuracy trade-offs. Four
of these models are English-only versions. Figure 9.6 lists the
names of the available models and their approximate memory
requirements and inference speed relative to the large
model.
Figure 9.6 Available models and languages.
According to OpenAI experiments, the .en models for
English-only applications tend to perform better, especially
for the tiny.en and base.en models. See their GitHub cited
earlier for more details.
9.3.1.1 Python Usage.
We perform transcription using the forementioned Python
Whisper library. Following is an example of how to transcribe
audio using Whisper:
--- PAGE 412 ---
import whisper
audio_input = "audio.mp3"
model_name = "base"
model = whisper.load_model(model_name)
result = model.transcribe(audio_input)
print(result["text"])
In this example:
We first import the Whisper library.
We specify the audio input file audio.mp3 and the model
we want to use base.
We load the specified Whisper model using
whisper.load_model(model_name).
We transcribe the audio file using
model.transcribe(audio_input).
Finally, we print the transcribed text using
print(result["text"]).
Internally, the transcribe method reads the entire file and
processes the audio with a sliding 30-second window,
performing autoregressive sequence-to-sequence predictions
on each window.
9.3.2 Whisper on FED Speech Audio Data
As we have seen, whisper models are trained on 30-second
input chunks and cannot process longer audio input at once.
This limitation can pose challenges for real-world
applications. The authors of the Whisper paper propose a
solution for transcribing longer audio sequences by
consecutively transcribing 30-second audio windows and
shifting this window according to the timestamps predicted
by the model. They also emphasize the importance of making
--- PAGE 413 ---
correct decisions about decoding heuristics to reliably
transcribe long audio, as detailed in section 4.5 of their
paper, Radford et al. (2022).
This has several implications for our use case. Fed speech
conferences typically last between 45 and 60 minutes. Using
such long audio inputs means that the timestamps predicted
by Whisper might not be accurate, which could potentially
introduce data alignment and look-ahead bias issues when
merging data by timestamp between audio and price data-
and important issue when backtesting trading strategies. The
unreliability of the predicted timestamps for long audio files
is something we have also observed during our
experimentation.
To ensure the input audio signals are correctly aligned with
the corresponding market time-series data, we avoid relying
on the transcription timestamps produced by Whisper, whose
accuracy decreases as the audio length increases. Instead,
we perform audio segmentation (described in Section 9.3.3)
beforehand, creating 60-second input chunks sampled every
30 seconds. This process generates 60-second “audio bars”
every 30 seconds. This method allows us to determine the
start and end timestamps of the corresponding audio, and
therefore its transcript, without relying on Whisper for this
purpose. Additionally, we introduced an embargo period in
the audio series. This means joining price data timestamps
with audio/transcribe timestamps 15 seconds earlier, thereby
reducing the risk of look-ahead bias even further. While all
these design choices limit the amount of information used to
compute the sentiment score in subsequent subsystems, they
significantly reduce the risk of introducing look-ahead bias.
9.3.3 Audio Segmentation
For the forementioned audio segmentation, we use FFmpeg
(https://ffmpeg.org), which is cross-platform solution to
--- PAGE 414 ---
record, convert and stream audio and video.
You can use ffmpeg-python: Python bindings for FFmpeg
(https://github.com/kkroening/ffmpeg-python), which are
Python wrappers for FFmpeg. For example, in the code
snippet below we can see how to convert between different
audio formats:
import ffmpeg
# Define input and output files
input_file = 'input_video.mp4'
output_file = 'output_audio.wav'
# Extract audio from video
ffmpeg.input(input_file).output(output_file).run()
For audio segmentation, you can specify the start time and
duration. This allows you to create specific “audio bars” of
defined lengths, containing pure alternative data. These can
then be combined with market data to create enriched
datasets for model training and evaluation.
# Define start time and duration in seconds
start_time = 30
duration = 60
# Extract a specific segment
ffmpeg.input(input_file, ss=start_time, t=duration).out
put(output_file).run()
Results on actual FED data are shown in Figure 9.7.
--- PAGE 415 ---
Figure 9.7 Whisper output on FED data.
9.4 Sentiment Analysis
After performing the speech-to-text conversion using whisper,
the next step is to compute the sentiment of the speech
based on the transcribed text. For this task, we use the
FinBERT model, Araci (2019), a variant of BERT Devlin et al.
(2019) fine-tuned specifically financial data. You might
wonder—why use FinBERT for this task instead of the more
powerful ChatGPT? One simple reason is cost—both
economic and computational. Using a BERT-based model for
this demo allows you to work with a widely used industry
model that can run on your own computer with minimal
resources or with free cloud resources available at the time
from Google Cloud. Beyond cost considerations, in the next
chapter, we will explore how to customize this model.
Specifically, we’ll cover how to fine-tune it and optimize it for
inference, making it more memory-efficient and faster at
runtime—something that would be far more challenging with
ChatGPT. With a large proprietary model like ChatGPT, you
--- PAGE 416 ---
would have to rely entirely on OpenAI's infrastructure,
limiting customization and hands-on learning.
9.4.1 BERT
The BERT model, which stand for Deep Bidirectional
Representation from Transformers, was introduced in in
2019 by Devlin et al. (2019).
BERT has been highly influential in both academic research
and industrial applications. In industry, Google Search
results were powered by a BERT model, eBay’s recommender
system utilizes BERT, and variants of BERT have been
successfully applied in Hamlet’s own work at Criteo.
Academically, extensive work has been done to improve
BERT’s performance, scalability, and efficiency. As of now,
the BERT paper has been cited more than 119,678 times
according to Google Scholar.
One reason BERT has been so influential is its transformation
of the typical workflow in NLP, both in industry and
academia. The paper demonstrated the power of pre-training
BERT plus fine-tuning for a variety of downstream NLP tasks,
consistently outperforming state-of-the-art models at the time
and proving invaluable for scenarios with limited training
data. Unlike traditional NLP approaches at the time of
BERT’s introduction, which often required training separate
models for each task, the pre-training and fine-tuning
approach enabled a more generalized and efficient workflow.
The concept of pre-training and fine-tuning, as highlighted in
the paper by demonstrating state-of-the-art experimental
results across the board at the time, has driven the industry
and academia to build better models by increasing the
amount of training data and model size. This approach has
led to the development of foundational models, which can
later be fine-tuned for more specific tasks. Fine-tuning
techniques will be covered in the next chapter.
--- PAGE 417 ---
For this chapter, we will describe the main aspects of the
BERT model, as FinBERT, which we use for sentiment
analysis, is a fine-tuned version of BERT specifically for
financial data.
9.4.1.1 BERT Overview.
BERT is based on a transformer encoder-only architecture,
which we covered in Chapter 5 in the Transformers section.
Unlike earlier models like GPT-1 (Radford et al., 2018) or
ELMo (Peters et al., 2018), which used left-to-right context or
a concatenation of left-to-right and right-to-left contexts
computed independently, BERT introduced bidirectional
context. This means that BERT considers both the left and
right context of a word simultaneously. Empirical results
have shown that this bidirectional context provides
embeddings that are better adapted to the surrounding
context. The differences in how these models handle
contextual information are illustrated in Figure 9.8.
--- PAGE 418 ---
Figure 9.8 Figure 3 from Devlin et al. (2019):
Illustration of differences in pre-training model
architectures, comparing BERT, OpenAI-GPT, and
ELMo OpenAI GPT uses a left-to-right Transformer.
ELMo uses the concatenation of independently
trained left-to-right and right-to-left LSTMs to
generate features for downstream tasks. Among the
three, only BERT representations are jointly
conditioned on both left and right context in all
layers. In addition to the architecture differences,
BERT and OpenAI GPT are fine-tuning approaches,
while ELMo is a feature-based approach.
9.4.1.2 Input/Output Representations.
To enable BERT to handle a variety of downstream tasks,
Devlin et al. (2019) designed a special input representation.
This representation allows BERT to unambiguously represent
both single sentences and pairs of sentences with a single
token sequence, making it suitable for various downstream
tasks. Let’s explore how inputs are represented in BERT.
9.4.1.2.1 Input Representations.
As discussed in Section 5.3.5, the first step in the NLP
pipeline involves a tokenization process, which takes a
sequence of raw words as input and outputs a sequence of
token IDs. Once we have this sequence of token IDs, BERT
--- PAGE 419 ---
augments the input representation. Let’s illustrate this
process with two sentences, Sentence A and Sentence B, and
see how BERT computes their initial representation and
processes them. Using the notation from Devlin et al. (2019):
1. Tokenization
Sentence A is tokenized into a sequence of tokens:
, where is the number of
tokens in Sentence A.
Sentence B is tokenized into a sequence of tokens:
, where is the number of
tokens in Sentence B.
2. Use of special tokens [SEP] and [CLS]
The tokenized sequences of Sentence A and Sentence
B are concatenated and separated by a special token
called [SEP]. This token helps BERT distinguish
between the two sentences when they are combined
into a single token sequence.
A special classification token [CLS] is added to the
beginning of the sequence. This token plays a critical
role in downstream tasks, as its final representation
is treated as the “aggregate sequence
representation” of the input; see Devlin et al. (2019).
3. Initial Embeddings: each token is mapped to an initial
embedding (embeddings are discussed in more detail in
Section 5.3.5)
[CLS] token is mapped to .
[SEP] token is mapped to .
Sentence A’s tokens are associated with embeddings
.
Sentence B’s tokens are associated with embeddings
.
--- PAGE 420 ---
These steps are part of BERT’s input representation process,
which is illustrated in Figure 9.9. As an example to
understand the dimensions associated with each embedding,
the embeddings for each token typically reside in a 768-
dimensional hidden space for the BERT-Base configuration or
a 1024-dimensional hidden space for the BERT-Large
configuration (more details about this are provided in the
next section).
Figure 9.9 Figure 1 from Devlin et al. (2019):
Illustration of the input/output BERT representation.
Apart from the output layers, the same architecture is
used for both pre-training and fine-tuning. The same
pre-trained model can be used as an initialization and
adapted for multiple tasks, as shown in the image on
the right. In the paper, during fine-tuning, all
parameters were updated. [CLS] is a special symbol
added at the beginning of every input example, and
[SEP] is a special token used to separate pairs of
sentences.
9.4.1.2.2 Output Representations.
After the Transformer layers process the input, the initial
token embeddings are updated to produce the final hidden
--- PAGE 421 ---
states or representations for each token. At the output:
The final hidden state for the [CLS] token is denoted as
.
The final hidden state for the [SEP] token is denoted as
.
The final hidden states for tokens in Sequence A and
Sequence B are and , respectively.
This is also visualized in Figure 9.9.
The role of the special token [CLS], short for classification, is
of special importance, it is used as the aggregate
representation of the entire input sequence. Devlin et al.
(2019) used in experiments related to classification tasks
showing its efficacy. In fact, FinBERT also uses to fine-tune
the model to perform sentiment analysis. In such task, is a
passed to a classifier, often referred to as the “classification
head,” to predict the sentiment of the input
sequence. (Remember that a classification head is a neural
network added on top of the encoder that maps C, the
encoded representation, to the desired number of classes.)
Another key feature of BERT is the introduction of a third
type of embedding for encoding the input, known as
segment embeddings. If you recall from our introduction to
Transformers in Section 5.3.5, the input embeddings to
transformers are typically computed as a combination of
token embeddings and positional embeddings, which are
usually combined by addition. In BERT, segment
embeddings are learned during the training process and
used to indicate whether a token belongs to Sentence A or
Sentence B. In summary, inputs embeddings are the sum of
three components: token embeddings, positional
embeddings, and segment embeddings. This is illustrated in
Figure 9.10.
--- PAGE 422 ---
Figure 9.10 Figure 2 from Devlin et al. (2019):
Illustration of the BERT input representation. The
input embeddings to the Transformer model are the
sum of the token embeddings, segment embeddings,
and positional embeddings.
This input representation allows BERT to unambiguously
represent both a single sentence and pairs of sentences in
one token sequence, which enables BERT to be use for
downstream task like Question and Answering, where we
typically provide the dataset as a collection of (Question,
Answer) pairs. Moreover, this representation makes the Next
Sentence Prediction (NSP) pre-training objective possible,
which we will discuss next.
9.4.1.2.3 Pre-training Objectives.
The pre-training objectives of BERT include two tasks:
1. Masked Language Model (MLM) task: In this task, words
in a sentence are randomly masked, and the model is
trained to predict the missing words. In the BERT paper,
15% of the words are masked. Of these, 80% of the time,
the [MASK] token is used, 10% of the time the correct
word is used, and the remaining 10% of the time a
random word is used.
2. Next Sentence Prediction (NSP): This task involves
predicting whether a given sentence B logically follows
--- PAGE 423 ---
sentence A. The model is trained on pairs of sentences
from a corpus.
The bidirectional context and the segment embeddings
introduced by BERT, along with its two pre-training
objectives, are considered the main innovations of the BERT
work (Devlin et al., 2019).
The data used for pre-training BERT included the
BookCorpus (900M words) (Zhu et al., 2015) and English
Wikipedia (2,500M words), with some additional pre-
processing described in the paper.
BERT comes in two configurations:
BERT-Base: 12-layer (transformer blocks), 768-hidden
dimension, 12 attention-heads, with a total number of
parameters equal to 110M
BERT-Large: 24-layer (transformer blocks), 1024-hidden
dimension, 16 attention-heads, with a total number of
parameters equal to 340M
The process of pre-training plus fine-tuning BERT for specific
downstream NLP applications outperformed state-of-the-art
models at the time, including GPT-1 from OpenAI, in all
considered NLP tasks.
9.4.1.3 Fine-tuning BERT for Enhanced Financial
Sentiment Analysis: Producing FinBERT.
Fine-tuning BERT on financial data is crucial because
general-purpose sentiment models may not accurately
capture the nuances of financial vocabulary and market-
specific sentiments. For example, the sentence “Mark left
Facebook” might be considered neutral by most sentiment
models, but in the financial context, it could significantly
impact the market. By fine-tuning BERT on financial texts, we
--- PAGE 424 ---
enable the model to learn new concepts, names, and entities
specific to finance, resulting in more accurate sentiment
analysis. Fine-tuning BERT for multiple tasks is
straightforward, as demonstrated by Devlin et al. (2019) in
multiple experiments.
As discussed in the previous section, fine-tuning BERT for a
classification task can be done by using the final hidden
representation of the classification token [CLS], which serves
as the “aggregate representation” of the entire sequence.
This representation is then fed to a classification head, which
outputs the probabilities associated with each sentiment
class.
To train the entire model, we simply need a collection of
(input, output) pairs. During training, all the model’s
parameters are updated, including those of BERT and the
classification head. In the literature, BERT is often referred
to as the “Body” of the network, to distinguish it from the
additional layer appended to perform a specific task, such as
classification, which is called the “classification head.”
In Hamlet’s experience, there are variations in what
parameters to train or finetune in practice. For certain
applications, fine-tuning only the classification head can yield
good results. However, this depends on the specific use case
and requires empirical validation. As we will see in the next
chapter, fine-tuning all the parameters might also be very
time-consuming and costly, but it often improves
performance. To address this, more efficient fine-tuning
methods can be utilized, which will be discussed in Section
10.5.1.
As discussed, fine-tuning for tasks like text classification
(e.g., sentiment analysis), the input text is fed into BERT, and
the final [CLS] token representation is passed into an output
layer for classification. This is the approach followed by the
authors of Araci (2019) to produce the FinBERT model for
text classification. The authors also experimented with
--- PAGE 425 ---
producing a FinBERT for regression, where the main
difference from the classification case is the use of a
continuous target, an output layer for regression, and a
regression loss function, specifically mean squared error.
This score can serve as a representation summarizing the
processing of relatively complex alternative data in a
downstream multi-factor trading strategy, for example. If you
want to learn more about applying Transformer-based
models for time series, check out Section 5.3.6, where we
have already covered this use case.
The datasets used to fine-tune BERT into FinBERT were as
follows:
1. TRC2-financial, which is a subset of Reuters’ TRC2. It
consists of 1.8M news articles that were published by
Reuters between 2008 and 2010. These data are used to
pre-train BERT. The corpus can be obtained for research
purposes by applying here:
https://trec.nist.gov/data/reuters/reuters.html.
2. Financial PhraseBank, see Malo et al. (2014), which is
the main sentiment analysis dataset used in this paper.
3. FiQA Sentiment, see WWW ’18: Companion Proceedings
of the Web Conference 2018 (2018), a dataset created for
the WWW ’18 conference financial opinion mining and
question-answering challenge. It includes 1,174 financial
news headlines and tweets with their corresponding
sentiment score.
For more details about the datasets, see Araci (2019).
So, let’s explore how we can leverage the FinBERT model for
our practical application.
--- PAGE 426 ---
9.4.1.4 Using FinBERT.
In this experiment, we use FinBERT, which has been trained
by Araci (2019) and made available at ProsusAI/finbert
(https://huggingface.co/ProsusAI/finbert). FinBERT is based
on fine-tuning BERT-Base, so it has a model size of 110M
parameters. We have also written some additional code on
top of the ProsusAI/finbert to make sentiment evaluation
quite easy.
Here, we illustrate how we can make use of this model for
computing the sentiment of sentences. Let’s start with a
simple example.
To compute the sentiment of the sentence “Mark has left
Facebook,” we can use the following code:
# negative
finbert_sa.predict_overall_sentiment('Mark has left fac
ebook',
finbert_model)
>>> -0.45569813
The sentiment score of indicates a negative
sentiment. Similarly, we can compute the sentiment of other
sentences. For example, consider the sentences “Jeff bezos
acquires Netflix”:
# seems neutral
finbert_sa.predict_overall_sentiment('Jeff bezos acquir
es Netflix',
finbert_model)
>>> -0.0069163926
This sentence has a sentiment score of , which
is quite neutral. Let’s look at another example, “Business
magnate Elon Musk initiated an acquisition of American
social media company Twitter”:
--- PAGE 427 ---
# seems neutral
finbert_sa.predict_overall_sentiment(
'''Business magnate Elon Musk
initiated an acquisition of American
social media company Twitter''',
finbert_model)
>>> 0.090285115
The sentence has a slightly positive sentiment score of
. Finally, let’s evaluate the sentiment of a more
complex sentence related to the Federal Reserve:
# negative
finbert_sa.predict_overall_sentiment(
'''The Federal Reserve held interest rates steady,
while also indicating it still expects one more hike
before the end of the year and fewer cuts than
previously indicated next year.''',
finbert_model)
>>> -0.13109717
This sentence has a negative sentiment score of .
We can also process multiple sentences at one. For example:
--- PAGE 428 ---
sentences = [
'Mark has left facebook',
'Jeff bezos adquires Netflix',
'''Business magnate Elon Musk initiated an
acquisition of American social media company Twitter
''',
'''The Federal Reserve held interest rates steady,
while also indicating it still expects one more
hike before the end of the year and fewer cuts
than previously indicated next year.'''
]
sentiments = finbert_sa.process_sentences(finbert_model
, sentences)
sentiments
>>> array([-4.5569813e-01, -1.7964840e-04,
9.0285115e-02, -1.3109717e-01], dtype=float32)
This array of sentiment scores makes it easy to analyze the
sentiment of multiple sentences efficiently.
9.5 Experiment Results
In this section, we describe the results of the model pipeline
used to convert FED speech audio data into trading signals.
As a reminder, the model pipeline consists of the following
steps:
1. Collecting audio from YouTube using pytube.
2. Audio segmentation using ffmpeg.
3. Transcribing the audio bars into text using the Whisper
model.
--- PAGE 429 ---
4. Computing sentiment scores for the transcribed text
using FinBERT.
5. Generating trading signals based on the sentiment
scores, with buy or sell decisions made according to
predefined thresholds from the sentiment score
distribution.
Price SPY data are sampled at 30-second intervals (30-second
bars), and based on sentiment, we attempt to make a trading
decision every 30 seconds.
In our test, we collected a total of 5 hours of speech data
from the Fed using pytube, corresponding to five different
Fed conferences. The audio was downloaded with a specified
bit rate (ABR) of 160kbps to ensure high quality.
As previously explained, after downloading the data, the
audio was segmented to create 60-second “audio bars,”
sampled at 30-second intervals, with timestamps delayed by
15 seconds (embargo) to reduce the risk of introducing look-
ahead bias. For transcription, we used the Whisper base
model for its trade-off between speed and accuracy. In our
experiments related to the speech processing part, we
noticed that the results were sensitive to using larger
versions of Whisper for producing the transcriptions, but this
did not significantly affect the results. Instead, the quality of
the input data had a more important impact. Therefore, we
downloaded the highest quality available that was common
across all videos.
Once the audio bars were created along with the
corresponding transcriptions, we used FinBERT to compute
the sentiment score of each audio bar. Trading signals were
generated based on the computed sentiment scores. The
sentiment score distribution was analyzed, and thresholds
were set based on its quantiles. If the sentiment score was
above the upper threshold, we generated a buy signal for the
SPY; if it was below the lower threshold, a short signal was
--- PAGE 430 ---
generated. Otherwise, no action was taken unless a position
was already open, in which case we closed it.
A summary of the main steps performed by each subsystem is
described here:
1. Data collection and preprocessing
Collected 5 hours of FED speech data
Downloaded audio with bit rate (ABR) of 160 kbps
Segmented the audio into 60-second bars with a 30-
second sampling interval and a 15-second embargo
2. Transcription and sentiment analysis
Used the Whisper base model for transcription
Applied FinBERT to compute sentiment scores for
each audio bar
3. Trading signal generation
Analyzed the sentiment score distribution to set
thresholds
Generated buy or sell signals based on sentiment
scores
Figure 9.11 shows the SPY forward return and sentiment
score time series produced by the system:
--- PAGE 431 ---
Figure 9.11 Time-series sentiment signal and forward
returns.
In Figure 9.12 we present the scatter plot between the
sentiment score and the SPY forward returns, which reveals
a positive correlation between them.
--- PAGE 432 ---
Figure 9.12 Scatter plot of sentiment signal vs
forward returns.
Finally, Table 9.1 summarizes the key performance results of
the strategy. These results include a simple constant model
for transaction costs, assuming 5 basis points (bps) per
transaction. Overall, across all videos, the trading signal
predicts the sign of the SPY forward returns with an accuracy
of 53.15%. The correlation between the sentiment score and
the SPY forward returns is 14.14% with a -value of 0.199%.
TABLE 9.1
Performance table.
Unnormalized Pearson
Sharpe ratio Correlation of
Sentiment Signal
Accuracy vs SPY -value
11.3844% 53.1532% 14.1458% 0.1999%
--- PAGE 433 ---
9.6 Conclusion
The experimental results demonstrate how we can effectively
process alternative data, in this case, audio, to generate
actionable trading signals. By collecting high-quality audio
from the internet, using appropriate audio segmentation, and
employing complex models for transcription and sentiment
score computation, we were able to generate profitable high-
frequency trading signals to trade the next 30 seconds of the
SPY. This application highlights the power of deep
autoregressive transformer models for modeling audio and
text, as covered in Chapter 5. Our experiments demonstrated
the critical role of FinBERT, a fine-tuned BERT model for
financial data. Unlike general sentiment analysis models,
which often miss financial nuances, FinBERT outperformed
other tested models not trained on financial data,
significantly improving our performance metrics. The next
chapter explores methods for customizing LLMs for
specialized tasks. This approach highlights the potential for
composing very complex deep learning models to address
complex financial applications.
--- PAGE 434 ---
Chapter 10
Efficient Inference
10.1 Introduction
In the past, the typical machine learning workflow in industry
was “relatively” straightforward: collect data for the problem
at hand, train a model on that data, and then deploy the
trained model directly into production to respond to new
inputs.
However, with the advent of increasingly large models, this
traditional approach has become less feasible. The large size
of modern models often makes it impractical to deploy them
in production as they are, at least for most companies or
institutions. This can be due to constraints such as latency
requirements for the specific applications these models are
used for, or due to the prohibitive infrastructure costs
associated with running these models at scale.
As a result, the typical machine learning workflow in the
industry has evolved. Instead of deploying the model directly
after training, a compression step is now commonly
introduced. This compression step takes the model produced
after training and typically produces a smaller version—
smaller in terms of the number of parameters or the memory
required to store them—while striving to maintain or even
improve the performance of the original model. Nowadays,
model compression is essential for meeting system
requirements for certain applications, such as reducing
latency or simply to reduce infrastructure costs.
One example from industry is the eBay case study (see Xue et
al. [2023]). They improved their recommender system by
fine-tuning BERT on eBay item titles, which often include
--- PAGE 435 ---
product-specific words, alongside the Wikipedia corpus, that
is more suited to the needs of eBay language understanding
tasks. In offline evaluations, this eBERT model outperforms
out-of-the-box BERT models on a collection of eBay-specific
tagging tasks. However, the eBERT model was too large to
achieve low latency specifications at inference time, making
it challenging to deliver recommendations in real time. To
address this issue, eBay used model compression techniques
to produce a smaller version of BERT that met their inference
requirements. They also optimized the model for CPU
inference to reduce costs. For more details on their work, see
Xue et al. (2023).
In Hamlet’s professional experience at Criteo, he has seen
that compression techniques are crucial not only for cost
reduction, which is a significant concern, but also for
meeting system design constraints. While massive
parallelization techniques can be employed to deploy models
and potentially meet latency requirements, in some cases,
the high costs associated with these solutions can diminish
the potential benefits of the system.
In this chapter, we introduce the most common techniques
used in the industry for efficient inference, such as
knowledge distillation, and model quantization. To illustrate
these techniques, we use FinBERT—the model applied in our
practical application in the last chapter—as a case study,
demonstrating how to make it faster at inference. We
conclude the chapter by showcasing techniques for
customizing LLMs, allowing you to adapt models to your
specific needs.
--- PAGE 436 ---
10.2 Scaling Large Language Models:
High Performance, High Computational
Cost, and Emergent Abilities
As discussed in the previous chapter, where we explored one
of the first, most widely used, and successful large language
models, BERT, the modern approach to solving a variety of
NLP tasks involves a two-step training process: pre-training
and fine-tuning. In the first step, a large model is pre-trained
on vast amounts of data, then fine-tuned to solve specific
NLP tasks.
Nowadays, there is strong evidence that improving the
model’s performance during the pre-training phase leads to
improvements across multiple NLP tasks. For example, in the
paper by Devlin et al. (2019), they empirically demonstrated
that the larger version of BERT, named BERT-Large,
outperformed the smaller version, BERT-Base, during pre-
training and consistently outperformed it across all the
downstream NLP tasks considered.
Given this evidence, a natural question arises: if strong
performance during pre-training is crucial, how should we
approach this phase effectively? Among the many variables
and strategies available, which are the most critical?
In the paper by Kaplan et al. (2020), the authors found that
one path to improving performance lies in scaling up the
models—specifically, increasing the number of model
parameters, the amount of training data, and the duration of
training time. When these factors are increased, they lead to
significant gains in performance. The authors empirically
found that performance follows a power-law relationship with
respect to these factors, as shown in Figure 10.1.
--- PAGE 437 ---
Figure 10.1 Figure 1 from Kaplan et al. (2020):
Illustration of how language modeling performance
improves with increases in model size, dataset size,
and the amount of compute used for training. For
optimal performance, all three factors must be scaled
up in tandem. Empirical performance exhibits a
power-law relationship with each individual factor
when the other two are not limiting.
For more details about how other parameters affect
performance, refer to the paper by Kaplan et al. (2020).
These empirical laws, which suggest that increasing any of
the mentioned factors can lead to almost predictable
improvements in model performance, have further motivated
the industry to scale up models. Scaling up models is also
crucial for unlocking emergent abilities of large models,
which we briefly discuss on the next section.
While this path of scaling up is highly effective for improving
performance, it also comes with some drawbacks, such as
increased inference costs and the infrastructure required to
serve these large models.
10.2.1 Emergent Abilities
While the scaling laws provide a powerful path for improving
model performance, recent evidence suggests that they are
also key for unlocking the emergent abilities of large
--- PAGE 438 ---
language models. Emergent abilities is defined by Wei et al.
(2022) as, “An ability is emergent if it is not present in
smaller models but is present in larger models.”
There are two main aspects of emergent abilities that are
important to know:
They cannot be directly predicted by extrapolating from
scaling laws (like the one discussed earlier).
These abilities begin to emerge only after the model
reaches a certain scale.
In the following section, we will use the main work by Wei et
al. (2023) on emergent abilities of large models. Particularly,
we will illustrate how model size and training time contribute
to the emergence of these abilities.
10.2.2 Impact of Model Size
To illustrate the impact of model size on emergent abilities,
let’s examine how Large Language Models (LLMs) perform in
solving middle school math word problems. In the work by
Wei et al. (2023), the GSM8K dataset is used for this
evaluation, where the LLMs are asked to solve math
problems using both standard prompting and chain-of-
thought prompting. According to Wikipedia, “Chain-of-
thought (CoT) prompting is a technique that allows large
language models (LLMs) to solve a problem as a series of
intermediate steps before giving a final answer” (see
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prompt_engineering]).
In Figure 10.2, you can see the performance measured as
solve rate (%) versus model scale, represented by the
number of model parameters in billions.
--- PAGE 439 ---
Figure 10.2 Figure 4 from Wei et al. (2023): An
illustration of how performance (solve rate) improves
as model scale, measured in billions of parameters,
increases for standard prompting versus chain-of-
thought prompting. Chain-of-thought prompting
enables LLMs to solve challenging math problems,
with chain-of-thought reasoning notably emerging as
an ability with increasing model scale.
The plot shows the performance of three different models:
LaMDA, GPT, and PaLM. A clear pattern emerges for each of
these models: as the number of parameters increases, so
does the performance. For example, focusing on the results
using chain-of-thought prompting, which tends to yield better
results, LaMDA, with 137 billion parameters, achieves a
performance of less than 20%. In contrast, GPT, with 175
billion parameters, achieves a performance exceeding 40%.
PaLM, with 540 billion parameters, reaches a performance of
around 50%.
10.2.3 Effect of Training Time
Evidence suggests that emergent abilities only appear after a
large number of training iterations. It’s not enough to simply
--- PAGE 440 ---
have a large model; it must also be trained extensively to
unlock these capabilities.
In Figure 10.3, taken from the paper by Wei et al. (2022), we
see the performance of various models—LaMDA, GPT-3,
Gopher, Chinchilla, PaLM, and a Random Model—on eight
different common NLP tasks, like Modular Arithmetic, Multi-
task Natural Language Understanding (NLU), Word-in-
Context, among others.
--- PAGE 441 ---
Figure 10.3 Figure 2 from Wei et al. (2022):
Illustration of performance, measured by accuracy,
versus model scale (measured in training FLOPs) for
eight different tasks. The figure shows how
performance transitions from random levels to
significantly above random after reaching a certain
scale threshold. These tasks demonstrate examples of
emergent abilities in the few-shot prompting setting,
which only appear after sufficient training.
Each graph shows model performance (measured in
accuracy) as a function of the model scale (training FLOPS,
or training floating point operations per second). For
example, looking at the Modular Arithmetic task, large
models like GPT-3 and PaLM show a significant performance
boost only when their training FLOPS exceed . Similarly,
for the Multi-task NLU task, models such as Chinchilla,
Gopher, and GPT-3 only start improving once their training
FLOPS pass the same threshold. We observe the same
behavior for the Word-in-Context task as well.
--- PAGE 442 ---
The key takeaway is that not only do we need large models,
but we also need to train them for many iterations to improve
their performance and unlock emergent abilities.
However, it is important to note that even after extensive
training, large models can be slow during inference due to
their huge number of parameters. This creates the need for
methods to speed up inference, as the ones described in this
chapter.
Lastly, although not explicitly shown in the figures, the
amount of training data is also a critical factor in the model’s
performance. Large models benefit from vast amounts of
data to learn from, further enhancing their capabilities.
10.2.4 Efficient Inference for Deep Models
To develop efficient inference for deep models, recent work
has focused on model compression and acceleration
techniques, such as the following:
1. Knowledge distillation
2. Quantization
3. Parameter pruning
4. Neural Architecture Search
In this chapter, we will focus only on techniques 1 and 2.
10.3 Making FinBERT Faster
10.3.1 Knowledge Distillation
Knowledge distillation is a technique used to create a faster
model (the student)—meaning one with lower inference time
—that approximates the performance of a slower but more
--- PAGE 443 ---
powerful model (the teacher). In this process, the student
model is by design smaller than the teacher model, with
fewer parameters, making it more efficient at inference time.
Knowledge distillation involves a learning process for the
student model where it not only learns from data, as in
typical training, but also has knowledge transferred from the
teacher model.
In our case study, the teacher model we want to approximate
is FinBERT; see Araci (2019). As a reminder, FinBERT is a
fine-tuned version of BERT that has been specifically trained
for sentiment analysis prediction in the financial domain.
If our only concern were inference speed, we could simply
train the student model using the given data (which, for
example, could be a combination of pre-training on the BERT
corpus followed by fine-tuning with the financial data used by
FinBERT). However, because the student model is smaller
than the teacher, it would likely underperform compared to
the teacher. Knowledge distillation offers a different
approach to this situation: it involves not only learning from
the data but also aligning the student model with certain
aspects of the teacher model. In its simplest form, this
alignment could involve matching the probability distribution
that the teacher model assigns to a given input, as described
by Hinton et al. (2015) in their paper on knowledge
distillation. (Yes, the same Hinton who shared the 2024
Nobel Prize in Physics with John Hopfield and is considered
one of the Godfathers of Deep Learning. See
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geoffrey_Hinton.)
An analogy can help clarify this process. Consider how we
learn a subject in school: imagine we have the option to study
directly from a textbook or to attend lectures given by a
teacher who is an expert in the subject. Most of the time, a
combination of both—attending lectures and reading the
textbook—leads to a better understanding than either
approach alone. In this analogy, the textbook represents the
--- PAGE 444 ---
data used in standard training, while the teacher represents
the model that also guides the learning process. Similarly, in
knowledge distillation, the student model benefits from
learning both from the data and from the guidance provided
by the teacher model.
To enable the student model to learn both from the data and
from the teacher model, the cost function used during
training must account not only for how well the student
model fits the data but also for how well it matches the
specific aspects of the teacher model that we want to
capture.
We will explore how to apply knowledge distillation to
FinBERT, demonstrating how this technique can be used to
create a faster model without sacrificing too much
performance.
10.3.1.1 Which Aspect of the Teacher Model to Match.
In knowledge distillation, there are various aspects of the
teacher model that the student model can try to align with.
These different aspects are known in the knowledge
distillation literature as different types of knowledge. For
example, in the most basic form of knowledge distillation,
often called vanilla knowledge distillation, the focus is on
aligning the probability distribution that the teacher model
assigns to different classes given the input, as in the case of a
classification task. This approach was popularized by Hinton
et al. (2015).
However, there are other forms of knowledge that can be
transferred from the teacher to the student model. For
instance, the intermediate representations computed by the
network are a potential source of knowledge that can be
transferred. Some methods use the activation features of
intermediate layers in the teacher model to guide the
learning of the student model, as described by Romero et al.
--- PAGE 445 ---
(2015) in their work on FitNets. Also, the parameters or
weights of the teacher model can also be a different source of
knowledge.
These different types of knowledge to transfer fall into three
categories: response-based knowledge, feature-based
knowledge, and relation-based knowledge. A very good
overview of these classification can be found in the excellent
survey on knowledge distillation by Gou et al. (2021).
For the purpose of this book and in our case study, we will
focus on the response-based knowledge, which is the
simplest yet highly effective method for model compression.
10.3.1.2 Response-based Knowledge.
Response-based knowledge refers to a scenario where the
student model attempts to mimic or match the output of the
teacher model’s last layer, meaning that we try to match its
final prediction.
In typical classification tasks, the most popular form of
response-based knowledge is known as soft targets, as
described in Hinton et al. (2015). In this context, soft targets
refer to the probability distribution allocated by the teacher
model over the different classes for a given input. This
contrast with the “ground truth” or hard targets, where the
probability mass is fully allocated to the “correct class.”
In neural networks for classification tasks, the class
probabilities are usually generated by applying a “softmax”
function to the logits, which are the outputs of the last fully
connected layer of the network. Following the notation
introduced in Hinton et al. (2015), we denote the outputs
logits as the vector , whose dimension depends on the
number of classes specified by the classification problem.
(Logits are the outputs of a neural network before the
softmax activation function is applied. They are scores of the
--- PAGE 446 ---
input belonging to a certain class. Recall the discussion on
Logistic Regression in Chapter 3). The probability
distribution is then computed by applying the softmax
function to :
where is the output corresponding to the -th class, and
is a parameter known as the temperature. Typically, in
classification problems, is set to 1, but in knowledge
distillation, using larger values of tends to produce a
“softer” probability distribution over the classes.
For example, in Figure 10.4, we show how the output of the
softmax function applied to the vector of logits
changes as we increase the temperature. At a
temperature of 1, the output is close to a hard target, with
almost all of the probability mass allocated to a single class.
As the temperature increases, the probability distribution
becomes progressively softer. For very large temperatures—
such as in our case temperature = 1,000—the distribution
approaches a uniform distribution across all classes.
(Physicists will recognize this as the Boltzman distribution
that gives the probability that a system will be in a certain
state as a function of that state’s energy and the temperature
of the system.)
--- PAGE 447 ---
Figure 10.4 Softmax distribution.
As we have discussed, the goal in knowledge distillation is for
the student model to learn both from the data and from the
teacher model, and specifically in soft targets response-based
knowledge, from the soft targets produced by the teacher. To
achieve this, we need an objective function for the student
that accounts for how well it fits the empirical data
distribution (typically measured by the cross-entropy loss in
classification problems) and how well it matches the
teacher’s soft targets. One approach is to use a weighted
average of both objectives:
where represents the total loss for the student,
represents the cross-entropy loss between the student model
and the ground truth label , is the weight hyper-parameter
between 0 and 1, and is the distillation loss that
measures how well the student’s distribution aligns
with the teacher’s distribution .
--- PAGE 448 ---
The knowledge distillation loss is typically proportional to the
Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence,
where is the temperature and is the KL divergence,
which measures the difference between the teacher and
student distributions. The factor ensures that the relative
contributions of the hard and soft targets remain balanced.
For more detailed explanations about the proportionally
factor, we encourage you to refer to Hinton et al. (2015)
10.3.1.3 Implementation Details.
We will use the Hugging Face
(https://huggingface.co) transformers python library for
performing knowledge distillation due to its powerful API and
utilities, which greatly simplifies the training and inference
with transformer models. In the repository accompanying
this book, you will find a short tutorial covering the basics of
this library, making sure you have the have the knowledge
needed to understand the relevant components discussed in
the book.
In the code snippets provided later, we focus on the most
important steps for implementing knowledge distillation.
Many steps, such as dataset creation, tokenization, train-test
splitting, among others, are common across machine learning
and NLP workflows and not specific to this project, so they
are not shown here. However, you can find the complete
step-by-step process for building this use case in the
accompanying notebook for this chapter.
Our goal is to find a balance between theory and specific
implementation, allowing you to understand the core
concepts of the topic and apply them using different libraries,
such as PyTorch Lightning
--- PAGE 449 ---
(https://lightning.ai/docs/pytorch/stable/), or even
implementing everything in plain Pytorch or TensorFlow. We
hope this approach give you a solid understanding of the
theory while providing detailed implementation examples in
the notebook, which can be updated as new powerful tools
become available.
Now that we understand the student loss described earlier—
a linear combination of cross-entropy loss (commonly used
for classification tasks) and knowledge distillation loss
(proportional to the KL divergence between the teacher and
student distributions)—we can proceed to implement it.
For standard training procedures, we typically use the
Trainer class of the transformers library, which provides and
API for training models in PyTorch, offering many features
out of the box, such as distributed training on multiple
GPUs/TPUs, etc. More information can be found in the
library documentation
https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.15.0/main_clas
ses/trainer.
Since our objective is to train the model using the distillation
loss , and the Trainer class does not support this loss
out of the box, we need to extend its capabilities.
Fortunately, this is straightforward.
We extend the standard Trainer class to create a
DistillationTrainer, as suggested in Tunstall et al. (2022),
which supports the student loss function necessary for
knowledge distillation. The DistillationTrainer can be
instantiated as shown in the following code:
--- PAGE 450 ---
distilbert_trainer = DistillationTrainer(
model_init=student_init,
teacher_model=teacher_model,
args=student_training_args
train_dataset=YOUR_TRAINING_SET,
eval_dataset=YOUR_EVALUATION_SET,
compute_metrics=compute_metrics,
tokenizer=student_tokenizer)
The DistillationTrainer object takes the following inputs:
student_init: a function used to provide the initialization
of the student model
teacher_model: the teacher model used for distillation
student_training_args: an instance of the
TrainingArguments class
YOUR_TRAINING_SET: a torch.utils.data.Dataset,
torch.utils.data.IterableDataset, or datasets.Dataset,
the dataset used to train the model
YOUR_EVALUATION_SET: a torch.utils.data.Dataset,
torch.utils.data.IterableDataset, or datasets.Dataset,
the dataset used to evaluate the model
compute_metrics: a function used to report metrics on the
evaluation set, such as precision, recall, accuracy, etc.
student_tokenizer: The tokenizer used to preprocess the
data
A key difference, from the input arguments point of view,
between the DistillationTrainer and the standard Trainer
class is the inclusion of the teacher_model argument, which
is essential for knowledge distillation.
From a functional perspective, DistillationTrainer must
compute the correct loss function. To do this, it needs access
--- PAGE 451 ---
to the and temperature hyperparameters. The
implementation of the compute_loss method is shown here:
--- PAGE 452 ---
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.nn.functional as F
from transformers import Trainer
class DistillationTrainer(Trainer):
def
__init__(self, *args, teacher_model=None, **kwargs):
super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
self.teacher_model = teacher_model
def
compute_loss(self, model, inputs, return_outputs=False)
:
device = torch.device("cuda" if
torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu")
inputs = inputs.to(device)
outputs_stu = model(**inputs)
# Extract cross-
entropy loss and logits from student
loss_ce = outputs_stu.loss
logits_stu = outputs_stu.logits
# Extract logits from teacher
with torch.no_grad():
outputs_tea = self.teacher_model(**inputs)
logits_tea =
outputs_tea.logits
# Soften probabilities and compute distillation
loss
loss_fct = nn.KLDivLoss(reduction="batchmean")
loss_kd = self.args.temperature ** 2 *
loss_fct(
F.log_softmax(logits_stu /
self.args.temperature, dim=-1),
F.softmax(logits_tea /
self.args.temperature, dim=-1))
# Return weighted student loss
loss = self.args.alpha * loss_ce + (1. -
self.args.alpha) * loss_kd
--- PAGE 453 ---
return (loss, outputs_stu) if
return_outputs else loss
In this customized Trainer class, we:
Save the teacher model in the __init__ method.
Compute the student loss in the compute_loss method,
where:
loss_ce corresponds to the cross-entropy loss.
loss_fct is an instance of the nn.KLDivLoss object,
which computes the KL divergence loss.
loss_kd corresponds to the knowledge distillation loss
between the teacher and student distributions.
loss is the linear combination of both losses.
As shown in the code, the class accesses and as
self.args.alpha and self.args.temperature through the
student_training_args parameters object. To make these
available during training, we extend the TrainingArguments
class as shown here:
from transformers import TrainingArguments
class DistillationTrainingArguments(TrainingArguments):
def
__init__(self, *args, alpha, temperature, **kwargs):
super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
self.alpha = alpha
self.temperature = temperature
After creating our custom trainer and custom training
arguments, we can train our student model using the
convenient features provided by the transformers library by
simply calling distilbert_trainer.train(). As previously
mentioned, the detailed step-by-step process for distilling
--- PAGE 454 ---
FinBERT is provided in the accompanying notebook, while
this section focuses on the key concepts and implementation
details.
10.3.2 Case study results. Distilling FinBERT
In the original paper by Araci (2019) on FinBERT, the
authors used two different datasets to fine-tune the model.
One of these datasets is TRC2-financial, which was employed
to improve the relevance of corpus to financial keywords. You
can obtain these dataset for research purposes by applying
here: https://trec.nist.gov/data/reuters/reuters.html.
The second dataset, Financial PhraseBank created by Malo et
al. (2014), is the main dataset used the FinBERT paper for
the specific task of sentiment analysis. It can be obtained for
free here:
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/251231364_Finan
cialPhraseBank-v10. In our experiments, this is the dataset
we used to perform knowledge distillation on FinBERT.
To ensure a fair comparison, we used the same train-test split
specified by the original authors, as provided in their GitHub
repository, FinBERT: Financial Sentiment Analysis with BERT
(https://github.com/ProsusAI/finBERT). This allowed us to
report evaluation metrics that are comparable to those in the
original paper. The evaluation metrics we used to assess
performance are the same as those in the original study,
namely accuracy, and macro F1 average.
Our first step was to reproduce the results reported in the
original paper, which we successfully did on the test portion
of the TRC2-financial sentiment dataset.
For the student model, we selected distilbert/distilbert-
base-uncased, provided by Hugging Face at
https://huggingface.co/distilbert/distilbert-base-uncased.
The Transformers library makes it easy to download models
--- PAGE 455 ---
from HuggingFace. More information about this process can
be found in the accompanying notebook for this chapter and
the HuggingFace tutorial in the book repository.
In terms of performance, our DistilledFinBERT slightly
outperforms the teacher model, FinBERT, which is an
excellent result. Detailed results can be found in Table 10.1.
TABLE 10.1
Performance metrics of teacher vs. student models.
Model Precision Recall F1-Score
FinBERT 0.85 0.84 0.84
DistilledFinBERT 0.86 0.85 0.85
Since we managed to maintain or even improve performance,
how does it compare in terms of inference speed? The results
are shown in Table 10.2.
TABLE 10.2
Inference speed of teacher vs. student models.
Model Average Latency (ms)
FinBERT 0.034
DistilledFinBERT 0.016
DistilledFinBERT achieves a 2.125 times faster inference
speed compared to the original FinBERT. In conclusion, our
DistilledFinBERT not only matches the performance of the
original model on the same test set, but it also offers
significantly faster inference, making it a more efficient
option for deployment.
--- PAGE 456 ---
10.4 Model Quantization
Quantization refers to the process of reducing the set of
values a variable can take so that the variable can be
represented using fewer bits, thereby reducing its precision.
The key question behind quantization is: Can deep neural
networks operate effectively with lower precision?
In deep learning, we are particularly interested in applying
quantization to the weights, biases, and activations of our
models. Reducing the bit precision of these elements leads to
improvements in memory storage, computational speed, and
energy consumption. Modern hardware is equipped with
specialized instructions for integer arithmetic, which further
enhance computational speed when operating in lower
precision. However, this reduction in precision can come at
the cost of accuracy, as lower bit representation might lose
information.
Training and inference in deep neural networks have distinct
precision requirements. During training—a highly dynamic
process involving a wide range of weight values—a large
dynamic range is important. On the other hand, inference
often prioritizes precision over a small dynamic range, as the
model makes predictions based on pre-trained weights that
often concentrates around a particular value. By
understanding the different requirements of training and
inference, we can design data types optimized for each stage.
As of the time of writing, there are two main quantization
techniques: K-Means quantization and linear quantization. In
this section, we will focus on linear quantization and explore
how it can be applied to achieve efficient model inference.
--- PAGE 457 ---
10.4.1 Linear Quantization
Linear quantization applies an affine mapping from the space
of integers to the space of real numbers (or floating-point
space) using the following formula: , as
described in Jacob et al. (2017). Here:
is the scale, a floating-point value.
is the zero point, an integer that represents the offset
or bias.
is the quantized number, an integer.
is the real value, a floating-point number.
The formula is a reconstruction formula, mapping quantized
values back to real values . In practice, though, we usually
start with the real value and need to find its quantized
counterpart, .
We can view this equation as a mapping from the integer
range to the floating-point range . The
range of the integer representation depends on the number
of bits used. For example, in signed integer representations,
the range of values for different bit widths is shown in Table
10.3:
TABLE 10.3
Integer range for different bit widths.
Bit width
2 −1 1
3 −4 3
4 −8 7
--- PAGE 458 ---
The floating-point range is determined by the
statistics of the real values input to be quantized. To
determine the scale , we impose that maps to and
maps to , solving the following system of equations:
Subtracting these two equations gives us the value of :
The zero point is found by solving for using
, which results in:
Since is an integer, we round it. To compute the quantized
value , we use:
Finally, is clamped to the range and rounded to
the nearest integer. Although there are different methods for
rounding, this example uses the simplest case, but adaptive
rounding methods also exist.
10.4.1.1 Example of Linear Quantization.
Let’s illustrate linear quantization with a toy example to give
a better understanding of the operations involved. Consider a
weight matrix that we want to quantize using 2 bits:
--- PAGE 459 ---
weights = np.array([
[-1.0856306 0.99734545 0.2829785 ]
[-1.50629471 -0.57860025 1.65143654]
[-2.42667924 -0.42891263 1.26593626]
])
First, we compute the scale . The dynamic range of the
weight matrix, defined by its minimum and maximum values,
is and . Using a 2-bit
representation, the integer range is . From this, we
compute the scale as . We can then find the zero
point . Finally, we compute the quantized weights using
the equation provided:
quantized_weights = (weights / scale +
zero_point).clamp(qmin, qmax).round()
>>> quantized_weights
np.array([
[[-1. 1. 0.]
[-1. -0. 1.]
[-2. -0. 1.]]
])
If we attempt to reconstruct the original matrix from the
quantized version, we obtain:
>>> reconstructed_weights
np.array([
[-1.3594 1.3594 0. ],
[-1.3594 -0. 1.3594],
[-2.7187 -0. 1.3594],
])
The reconstruction error is the difference between the
original and reconstructed weights:
--- PAGE 460 ---
>>> reconstruction_error
np.array([
[ 0.2737 -0.362 0.283 ],
[-0.1469 -0.5786 0.2921],
[ 0.2921 -0.4289 -0.0934]
])
10.4.2 Quantizing an Attention Layer in Distilled
FinBERT
Now, let’s apply this process to one of the attention layers in
our Distilled FinBERT model using 8 bits. Figure 10.5 is a
distribution of the parameters of the layer, following a similar
setup to that in Tunstall et al. (2022).
Figure 10.5 Weights distribution.
As shown in Figure 10.5, the weights are concentrated within
a narrow range of values, exhibiting a small dynamic range.
Since we are using signed 8-bit integers, the range is
--- PAGE 461 ---
. The scale factor and zero point are calculated
similarly to the previous example.
Next, we compute the quantized weights using the formula
, clamp the values, round them to the nearest
integer, and store them in the torch.int8 data type:
manually_quantized_weights = (weights / scale +
zero_point).clamp(qmin, qmax).round().char()
>>> manually_quantized_weights
tensor([[ -5, -8, 0, ..., -6, -3, 8],
[ 8, 3, 1, ..., -4, 7, 1],
[ -9, -5, 5, ..., 0, 6, -3],
...,
[ 5, 0, 13, ..., 0, 6, -1],
[ 0, -2, -12, ..., 12, -8, -13],
[-13, -1, -9, ..., 8, 2, -2]], dtype=tor
ch.int8)
Torch also provides a built-in function,
torch.quantize_per_tensor, for this process. Here’s how the
result compares:
--- PAGE 462 ---
from torch import quantize_per_tensor
# torch as a function which performs this operation for
us
dtype = torch.qint8
quantized_weights =
quantize_per_tensor(weights, scale, zero_point, dtype)
quantized_weights.int_repr()
tensor([[ -5, -8, 0, ..., -6, -3, 8],
[ 8, 3, 1, ..., -4, 7, 1],
[ -9, -5, 5, ..., 0, 6, -3],
...,
[ 5, 0, 13, ..., 0, 6, -1],
[ 0, -2, -12, ..., 12, -8, -13],
[-13, -1, -9, ..., 8, 2, -2]], dtype=tor
ch.int8)
Finally, let’s compare the results:
# make sure they are equivalent
assert abs(quantized_weights.int_repr() -
manually_quantized_weights).sum().item() <= 1e-5
Figure 10.6 is the distribution of the quantized weights.
--- PAGE 463 ---
Figure 10.6 Distribution of quantized weights.
To verify the gain in memory efficiency from moving from
FP32 to INT8, we can measure it directly in code:
import sys
# 4x time compression!
sys.getsizeof(weights.storage()) /
sys.getsizeof(quantized_weights.storage())
>>> 3.999755879241598
We also measure the speedup of performing the operation
weights*weights, as shown in Table 10.4.
--- PAGE 464 ---
TABLE 10.4
Performance table for speedups because of
quantization.
Data Type Time (s)
float32 0.006926
int8 0.000266
Speedup 26.06x
As demonstrated, quantization provides significant
improvements in both memory footprint and computational
speed. For more details, refer to the associated notebook for
this chapter.
10.4.3 Experiment Results with Linear
Quantization on Distilled FinBERT
In this section, we apply linear quantization to the entire
Distilled FinBERT model and evaluate the improvements in
memory storage and computational speed, along with any
potential loss in accuracy due to representing the model’s
weights with lower precision. (As a side note, in these
experiments, quantization is applied only during the
inference process.) Since at the time of writing PyTorch
currently supports linear quantization only on CPU devices,
the results presented here are for CPU-based inference. The
results are summarized in Table 10.5.
--- PAGE 465 ---
TABLE 10.5
Inference speed after quantization.
Accuracy Average Latency
Model (%) per Sentence (s)
FinBERT 83.9175 0.1533
DistilledFinBERT 85.3608 0.1060
QuantizedDistilledFinBERT 83.7113 0.0458
As shown, the quantization process introduces some loss in
accuracy, with the model’s performance dropping from
85.36% in the distilled version to 83.71% in the quantized
version. However, the quantized Distilled FinBERT still
matches the original FinBERT’s accuracy (83.92%), with only
a slight difference of 0.2%. In contrast, the quantized model
achieves a significant speedup, performing inference 3.35
times faster than the original model.
This result demonstrates the power of efficient inference:
maintaining nearly identical performance while delivering
significantly faster predictions. Details on how to apply
quantization to the model are provided in the accompanying
chapter notebook.
10.5 Customizing Your LLM: Adapting
Models to Your Needs
LLMs are incredibly powerful tools that can speed up many
kinds of tasks. In earlier chapters, we showed how they can
help generate code for trading strategies or assist in
developing trading ideas. However, as we have seen, getting
satisfactory answers often requires extensive prompt
engineering and adding extra context to guide the model to
produce relevant outputs.
--- PAGE 466 ---
Sometimes, though, you might already have a lot of useful
information, like a codebase or internal documentation, that
you would like the LLM to access directly. By customizing the
LLM to work with this knowledge, you can reduce the
amount of prompt engineering and get answers that are
much more tailored to your specific needs. For example, this
would allow software engineers, quant researchers, or
discretionary traders to interact with a knowledge base more
effectively, getting responses that are more relevant and
aligned with their work.
As of the time of writing, there are two main ways to
customize an LLM to work with your own data. One involves
fine-tuning, also known as post-training, which as we have
seen involves retraining the model with your specific data to
make it better for your tasks. The other approach does not
require retraining the LLM but instead enriches the user’s
prompt by appending extra information as part of the input,
allowing the LLM to use that data to answer specific
questions.
A popular method in this second category is Retrieval
Augmented Generation (RAG). In RAG, contextual
information is automatically retrieved from an external
database and appended to the user’s prompt, helping the
LLM generate more relevant or “grounded” responses.
The contextual information is dynamically retrieved from the
database by measuring the similarity between the user’s
input prompt and the files in the database. The main idea is
to represent both the files in the database and the user’s
prompt as mathematical objects, such as vectors
(embeddings). Once we have these representations, a
similarity measure can be applied to identify and retrieve the
most relevant files for the input prompt. For more
information about RAG, please refer to the OpenAI blog post
Retrieval-augmented Generation (RAG) and Semantic Search
for GPTs at https://help.openai.com/en/articles/8868588-
--- PAGE 467 ---
retrieval-augmented-generation-rag-and-semantic-search-for-
gpts.
In the next section, we will provide a brief overview of
techniques for fine-tuning (or post-training) to customize
your LLMs. While we will not delve into the technical details
—that is beyond the scope of this book—we will cover the key
concepts and focus on one specific technique to build a
practical example you can try yourself.
10.5.1 Fine-tuning Techniques
10.5.1.1 Traditional Fine-tuning (FT).
FT involves retraining all the parameters of the model, which
can be computationally expensive and time-consuming as
models scale. Additionally, it comes with the risk of
catastrophic forgetting, where the model loses a considerable
part of the knowledge gained during pre-training, leading to
degraded generalization performance.
To address these challenges, academia and industry have
developed techniques that involve adapting only a subset of a
model’s parameters during training. These techniques fall
under the category of parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT),
making models faster to adapt, more memory-efficient, and
capable of achieving comparable or even better performance
than traditional fine-tuning.
10.5.1.2 Parameter-efficient Fine-tuning (PEFT).
PEFT focuses on adapting a subset of model’s parameters
during fine-tuning, which reduces computational
requirements, storage needs, and training time compare with
FT. Following are some key PEFT methods.
--- PAGE 468 ---
10.5.1.2.1 BitFit.
BitFit updates only the bias terms of the network rather than
all the model’s parameters; see Zaken et al. (2021). The
authors have shown that applying BitFit to BERT-like
architectures—models we’ve explored in this and the
previous chapter—achieves performance comparable to full
fine-tuning on small-to-medium datasets. Remarkably, for
models like BERTBase and BERTLarge, the bias terms
represent less than 0.1% of the model’s parameters, yet
modifying only this small percentage appears to be enough
for such datasets. For more details, refer to Zaken et al.
(2021).
10.5.1.2.2 Adapters.
Adapters (Houlsby et al., 2019) introduce trainable layers
into the network. During adaptation, only these newly added
layers are updated, while the original model parameters
remain frozen. Authors have shown that adapters achieve
near state-of-the-art performance at the time of publication.
However, adding new layers to the network increases both
storage requirements and inference latency. More details can
be found in Houlsby et al. (2019).
10.5.1.2.3 Prompt-tuning.
Prompt-tuning involves enriching the input prompt with a
learnable prompt to help the LLM perform well on a
downstream task, such as computing the sentiment of a given
text, see the paper The Power of Scale for Parameter-efficient
Prompt Tuning by Lester et al. (2021). The authors of this
paper show that prompt-tuning achieves accuracy
--- PAGE 469 ---
comparable to traditional fine-tuning as the model size
increases. An extension of prompt-tuning is prefix-tuning,
introduced in the paper Prefix-tuning: Optimizing Continuous
Prompts for Generation by Li and Liang (2021), which adds
learnable prompts to each layer of the transformer. However,
this method introduces additional inference latency due to
the learnable prompts and reduces the available input
prompt length.
10.5.1.3 LoRA (Low-rank Adaptation of Large Language
Models).
LoRA, see Hu et al. (2021), is similar to adapters in the sense
that it introduces additional learnable layers, but with the
difference that it does so as a parallel branch (see Figure
10.7), which provides the advantage of not increasing
inference latency. Like adapters, LoRA keeps the original
network parameters fixed and trains additional parameters,
which are then combined with the original network via
addition.
--- PAGE 470 ---
Figure 10.7 Figure 1 from Hu et al. (2021): This
figure illustrates the reparameterization of new layers
added as a parallel branch using LoRA. Only the
matrices and are trained, while pretrained
weights are not updated. The figure also shows the
initialization of matrices and .
For example, following the terminology of the paper,
consider a dense layer in the network with parameters . If
the input to this layer is , the output is denoted as .
In LoRA, an additional layer, , is introduced as a parallel
branch. The output of LoRA then becomes:
During training, the parameters of remain fixed (frozen),
while the parameters of are adapted.
The key aspect of LoRA is that the matrix is constrained
to be a low-rank matrix, defined as . For example,
if has dimensions , must also have dimensions
. However, and have dimensions and ,
respectively, where . This, in LoRA, the forward
pass is modified as follows:
--- PAGE 471 ---
So, once the weights and are learned and combined with
the original network to form , no extra latency is
introduced at inference time because and have the
same dimensions. Authors in Hu et al. (2021), propose to
initialize with random Gaussian values and with zeros, so
making sure that starts as zero at the beginning of
training (see Figure 10.7).
10.5.1.3.1 Efficiency of LoRA.
Authors have shown that for large models like GPT-3 (175B
parameters), a very low rank , such as 1 or 2, suffices even
when the full rank is as high as 12,288. This makes LoRA
highly storage and compute efficient.
In their experiments, the authors demonstrated that,
compared to fine-tuning GPT-3 175B with Adam optimizer,
LoRA reduces the number of trainable parameters by 10,000
times and the GPU memory requirements by three times. See
Hu et al. (2021) for more details on the results and
experiments.
10.5.1.3.2 QLoRA.
QLoRA, see Dettmers et al. (2024), extends LoRA by
incorporating quantization, making it even more storage and
compute efficient. More details about QLoRA can be found at
Dettmers et al. (2024).
Fortunately for us, most of these PEFT techniques have
already been implemented by the Hugging Face team. You
can learn more in their blog post announcing the release of
the PEFT library: Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning of Billion-
Scale Models on Low-Resource Hardware at
--- PAGE 472 ---
https://huggingface.co/blog/peft. For a more in-depth
exploration, visit the PEFT GitHub repository at
https://github.com/huggingface/peft, which provides
implementations of state-of-the-art PEFT methods fully
compatible with the Hugging Face Library. Also, if you want
to learn more about efficient deep learning, check out the
MIT course TinyML and Efficient Deep Learning Computing
at https://hanlab.mit.edu/courses/2024-fall-65940. This
excellent resource covers more topics than we can address in
a single chapter.
As an example, in the accompanying notebook for this
chapter, we will illustrate how to fine-tune the Llama 3 model
using LoRA. This approach enables can be extended by you
to develop various applications, such as customized Q&A
systems for internal use or customer-facing applications.
10.5.1.4 Aligning Your LLM with Human Preferences.
Another key aspect of fine-tuning is aligning LLM responses
with human preferences. After the initial pre-training phase,
model outputs can sometimes be unhelpful or even toxic.
Techniques like Reinforcement Learning from Human
Feedback (RLHF), introduced by Ouyang et al. (2022), help
language models generate responses that are more human-
like, creative, truthful, and helpful. RLHF also helps to
reduce issues like biased or inaccurate content and was one
of the major advancements used by OpenAI that transformed
GPT-3, into the remarkable ChatGPT that we all love.
A newer approach, direct preference optimization (DPO),
simplifies the RLHF process while improving stability,
performance, and computational efficiency. For more details
about DPO see Rafailov et al. (2024).
Interestingly, PEFT methods—like the ones we talked about
earlier—can also be used with RLHF and DPO, making fine-
tuning more efficient.
--- PAGE 473 ---
These techniques are important for customizing LLMs to
specific use cases. However, since they are beyond the scope
of this book—at least in this edition—we will not go into the
details. That being said, they are worth keeping an eye on as
this field continues to evolve.
For a practical example of applying PEFT techniques with
RLHF, we encourage readers to check out the Hugging Face
blog post, Fine-tuning 20B LLMs with RLHF on a 24GB
consumer GPU at https://huggingface.co/blog/trl-peft, which
can be especially useful if you have limited computational
resources–basically, if you don’t have a cluster of GPUs just
available to you to fine-tune your models.
10.6 Conclusions
In this chapter, we highlighted the importance of model
scaling for improving performance, not only in a wide range
of downstream tasks but also in unlocking emergent abilities.
However, as demonstrated, scaling models come with trade-
offs, such as increased latency and higher deployment costs.
These challenges necessitate modern solutions for efficient
production deployment, such as knowledge distillation and
model quantization.
We showcased the effectiveness of these techniques using a
real-world case study with FinBERT, a BERT-based model
specialized for sentiment analysis in financial data. Through
distillation and quantization, we achieved a nearly threefold
increase in inference speed while maintaining the same level
of accuracy.
Additionally, we explored techniques for customizing your
own LLM to make it more tailored to your specific data.
Among these, we delved into LoRA and QLoRA, which, at the
time of writing, stand out as some of the most efficient
methods for fine-tuning LLMs. We also briefly mentioned the
--- PAGE 474 ---
two major techniques currently used to align LLM outputs
with human preferences, which have been crucial in the
development of widely adopted LLM solutions like OpenAI’s
ChatGPT. These techniques are versatile and can be applied
across various models, offering powerful solutions for
optimizing performance and inference costs in real-world
applications.
--- PAGE 475 ---
Chapter 11
Afterword
In Part 1 the book, we demonstrated how LLMs can assist
with a no-code approach to developing trading applications,
such as helping traders with code generation or generating
ideas for trading strategies. While these tools can
significantly accelerate the development process, like in
typical software engineering tasks in other fields, we found
that in financial applications at least, domain expertise is
still crucial. Users need a solid understanding of their goals
to generate meaningful trading strategies. LLMs can serve
as copilots, assisting with coding tasks and clarifying ideas,
but their outputs must be critically evaluated by a
knowledgeable user. Techniques like Retrieval Augmented
Generation (RAG) can enhance LLMs by grounding their
responses in specific content, but when it comes to
generating trading strategies, human insight and domain
expertise remain indispensable.
We then transitioned from the no-code approach to a
whirlwind tour of the modeling techniques that are well
known to quantitative traders and hedge fund managers.
We explored the advantages and limitations of
unsupervised and supervised learning, tree-based and
neural-network-based methods, RNNs, and Reinforcement
Learning, highlighting the importance and nuances of data
and feature engineering. On the way, we also discussed
training methods such as stochastic gradient descent that
are widely used in deep learning.
In Part 2, we explore the power of Deep Generative Models
and their applications in trading and asset management.
These models excel at handling complex, multimodal, high-
--- PAGE 476 ---
dimensional data. First, we explained the difference
between discriminative vs generative models. Then, we
examined several families of generative models, some of
which possess core abilities like generating new data,
computing probability densities, and discovering new
representations, though not all model families are capable
of performing all these tasks, with some excelling in
specific areas like data generation, probability density
approximation, or representation learning. As a reminder,
representation learning is all about finding a new
representation for the data space, typically referred to as
the latent space. Ideally, this latent representation should
possess desirable properties, such as a lower
dimensionality compared to the data space or
“independent” axes of variation. The goal is for this new
data representation to serve as a compressed form of the
data and that can be used for solving downstream tasks,
such as prediction, anomaly detection, or data generation.
The Variational Autoencoder (VAE) is an example of a
model that provides such a representation. These
capabilities are crucial for developing applications in fields
like finance, where high-dimensional, multimodal complex
data—such as multivariate time series—are common, and
where uncertainty quantification is critical for making
informed decisions.
We discussed the pros and cons of both explicit and implicit
deep generative models for high-dimensional data.
Remember that explicit models propose a tractable
probability density model to approximate the data
distribution, in contrast to implicit models, which do not
define a probability density function. Examples of explicit
models discussed in this book include Autoregressive
Models, the well-known VAE and Flow Models. For implicit
models, we discussed Generative Adversarial Networks
--- PAGE 477 ---
(GANs). These models have valuable applications in
forecasting and risk management.
These techniques, which allow you to model high-
dimensional multimodal data, are not just simple extensions
of classical parametric models found in classical statistics,
such as regression models under Gaussian or t-distribution
assumptions. Also, due to the large number of parameters
involved to model complex data distributions, and the
amount of data required for training them, these models
are designed not only to achieve good performance, but
also to be efficient at training time, inference time, and
sample generation. Sometimes, achieving all these benefits
simultaneously in a single solution is very challenging.
However, techniques have been developed to improve
specific aspects, such as the one described in Chapter 10 to
improve inference speed.
We illustrated their potential in finance through use cases
such as multivariate time-series forecasting and synthetic
multivariate time-series generation. We emphasize that
despite being called “Generative AI,” as previously
mentioned, the proposed models are not just for generating
synthetic multivariate time series. They can also be used
for forecasting these series or as powerful building blocks
for solving a variety of downstream tasks, like the use case
presented in Chapter 9. These downstream tasks may even
be trained with data augmentation, using synthetic data
generated by these models to improve performance, or be
used to manage risk by simulating new scenarios based on
this data.
In the final chapters, Chapters 9 and 10 we discussed how
these models can be used to process alternative data and
generate trading signals, showing their flexibility and
potential in generating alternative features and trading
strategy development. In particular, we explored how to
--- PAGE 478 ---
build a system that takes speech data as input and outputs
trading signals. This system uses transformer models to
convert audio signals to text and applies LLMs to assign
sentiment scores to text, which are then used to generate
trading signals.
Last but not least, we covered some important special
topics. One of them is the modern approach of pre-training
plus adaptation, which allows you to adapt or fine-tune
powerful pre-trained models for your custom applications.
This technique enables good performance even when we
have limited data available to train our model for a specific
task. We also discussed fine-tuning techniques that help
improve the efficiency of the fine-tuning process.
Additionally, we covered compression techniques for
optimizing model scalability, speeding up inference,
reducing inference latency, and lowering the associated
deployment costs, which are critical for making these
models works in practical settings. Finally, we explored the
scaling laws of LLMs and their emergent abilities. Scaling
laws of LLMs state that increasing the number of model
parameters, the amount of training data, and the training
duration will lead to significant gains in performance on
these models. These laws provide a straightforward way to
improve performance in LLMs: if you increase your
resources for data and training, you will increase model’s
performance. However, we still don’t know if these laws
will reach a saturation point where the “law” starts to
break down.
Emergent abilities, such as the ability of these models to
solve math problems, only appear after the model has
reached at certain scale. These abilities are a surprise for
practitioners and researchers, and at the time of writing,
we are not able to predict when they will appear.
--- PAGE 479 ---
While no single deep generative model family is universally
superior across all tasks and datasets, different families
excel in different domains. For example, autoregressive
models have proven highly effective for text generation,
while diffusion models are, as of this writing, the leading
approach for image generation. However, in data
generation for financial applications—especially for
generating synthetic univariate or multivariate time series
—there is still no clear winner. The low signal-to-noise
ratio, non-stationarity of financial data, and the relatively
small datasets available for training, compared to domains
like text and images, pose significant challenges. These
factors make the problem more difficult, suggesting that
more tailored solutions or additional empirical work need
to be done for this specific use case.
Despite these challenges, generative models hold immense
potential for financial applications, particularly in
generating features from alternative data sources, which in
the past required large teams of highly specialized talent
and significant infrastructure investing. The features
generated by these systems can be integrated into more
advanced trading strategies, providing a competitive edge
in an increasingly data-driven industry.
While we covered a wide range of topics, there are several
promising areas of future exploration in finance where
generative AI models could play a significant role, which
we did not have the time to cover in this edition:
11.1 Diffusion Models
Diffusion Models are currently considered state-of-the-art
in image generation applications and are integrated into
well-known products such as DALL·E from OpenAI. These
models, also known as denoising diffusion probabilistic
--- PAGE 480 ---
models (DDPMs), see Sohl-Dickstein et al. (2015) and Ho et
al. (2020).
Diffusion Models take a different approach to data
generation compared to the methods we have explored so
far. For instance, GANs generate samples in a single step
by feeding noise into the generator, which produces the
output image in one go. In contrast, Diffusion Models
generate data through an iterative refinement process
consisting of multiple steps. This iterative procedure is
considered one of the key reasons for their superior
performance.
Diffusion Models are explicit models with approximate
density estimation—recalling VAEs. In fact, their learning
process can be seen as analogous to training only the
decoder of a VAE.
These models achieve equal or better results comparable to
GANs in data generation, but they offer a more stable
training process and with additional advantage of
performing density estimation. However, sampling from
them is relatively slow.
More details about diffusion models can be found at Sohl-
Dickstein et al. (2015), Ho et al. (2020), and Bishop and
Bishop (2023).
Given the success of Diffusion Models in generating image
data, researchers have started applying them to multiple
applications, including, multivariate time-series forecasting
and generation. Details can be found in the following
surveys: Yang et al. (2023, 2024). We anticipate further
developments in this area.
--- PAGE 481 ---
11.2 Combining Generative Model
Variants
Throughout the book, we have seen that some generative
model families are very good at modeling correlation
between the dimensions of a single point in our datasets
(e.g. cross-sectional co-dependence of returns across
assets). However, by design, their structure assumes
independence between consecutive observations.
Throughout the book, we have discussed various
approaches to adapt these models to capture this structure,
the time-series dynamics, which can be crucial when
modeling time series at certain time scales where
dependencies between observations are significant.
Some of these solutions involve combining different model
families, which, as we’ve mentioned, can serve as powerful
building blocks when used together. For example:
Combining Autoregressive Models with VAEs: This was
achieved by adding sequential encoders and decoders
to VAEs, giving rise to models like the Variational
Recurrent Autoencoder (VRAE), as described in
Chapter 6.
Combining Autoregressive Models with Flow Models: In
Chapter 7, we explore the combination of RNNs and
Transformer models with flows.
Combining Autoregressive Models with GANs: In
Chapter 8, we examine using RNNs with GANs,
resulting in models such as RCGAN or TimeGAN.
TimeGAN, in particular, employs a sequence generator
and discriminator to model time-series dynamics in the
latent space.
--- PAGE 482 ---
These are some of the variants discussed throughout the
book. However, there are well-known variations used in
other fields that we did not cover. A few of them consists on
combining flows with VAEs (see Kingma et al. [2016]);
GANs with VAEs, called InfoGAN (see Chen et al. [2016]).
We expect that more variants may be developed, inspired,
or applied in the context of time series.
11.3 LLMs as Financial Advisors
Similar to how large language models (LLMs) are being
tested on medical university examinations to evaluate their
potential as doctor assistants, Lo and his team are
exploring whether LLMs can demonstrate the same domain
knowledge humans exhibit when passing typical financial
examinations, such as the CFA test; see
https://mitsloan.mit.edu/ideas-made-to-matter/can-
generative-ai-provide-trusted-financial-advice. The goal of
this approach is to assess whether LLMs are capable of
providing relevant financial advice.
According to Lo, his team’s research shows promising
results thus far. He stated, “We’re actually able to generate
passing domain-specific knowledge among large language
models,” as reported in the cited MIT Sloan web article. We
expect to see a growing trend in developing LLMs that are
specific to finance, for example, whether as advisors or, as
demonstrated in Chapter 9, by fine-tuning LLMs to perform
sentiment analysis specific to financial contexts, among
others.
This is a rapidly evolving field, with new approaches and
advancements being released in an almost daily basis. In
this book, our goal was to provide a solid understanding of
the core building blocks of generative models, enabling you
to navigate, analyze, innovate, and apply these innovations
--- PAGE 483 ---
in trading and asset management. We have sprinkled code
samples throughout the book. They can be downloaded
from the book’s GitHub repository:
https://github.com/genai-for-traders/genai-for-trading-and-
am. Also, we welcome reader’s questions and comments on
our Twitter/X account (echanQT, and hamletjmedina)
and at our blog https://substack.com/@gatambook. We are
sure that by the time this book is published, we have
already gained better understanding and better tools in
applying AI to finance, and we will post our latest learnings
to those media.
--- PAGE 484 ---
References
Abbeel, P., Chen, P., Ho, J., and Sriniva, A. (2020). Lecture
slides on deep unsupervised learning, CS294-158-SP20.
Course, University of California, Berkeley.
https://sites.google.com/view/berkeley-cs294-158-
sp20/home.
Alshahwan, N., Chheda, J., Finegenova, A., Gokkaya, B.,
Harman, M., Harper, I., et al. (2024). This automated
unit test improvement using large language models at
Meta. https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09171.
Ang, A. (2014). Asset management: A systematic approach
to factor investing. Oxford University Press.
Ansari, A.F., Stella, L., Turkmen, C., Zhang, X., Mercado,
P., et al. (2024). Chronos: Learning the language of time
series. https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.07815.
Araci, D. (2019). FinBERT: Financial sentiment analysis
with pre-trained language models.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.10063.
Arik, S. and Pfister, T. (2020). TabNet: Attentive
interpretable tabular learning.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.07442.
Arjovsky, M., Chintala, S., and Bottou, L. (2017).
Wasserstein GAN. https://arxiv.org/abs/1701.07875.
Baldridge, R. (2024). Top 10 U.S. hedge funds of December
2024. https://www.forbes.com/advisor/investing/top-
hedge-funds/.
--- PAGE 485 ---
Belov, S., Chan, E., Jetha, N., and Nautiyal, A. (2023).
Applying corrective AI to daily seasonal Forex trading.
https://predictnow.ai/applying-corrective-ai-to-daily-
seasonal-forex-trading-paper/.
Bishop, C.M. (2006). Pattern recognition and machine
learning (Information science and statistics). Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag.
Bishop, C.M. and Tipping, M.E. (2001). Probabilistic
principal component analysis. Journal of the Royal
Statistical Society, Series B, 61, part 3, pp. 611–622.
Bishop, C. M. and Bishop, H. (2023). Deep learning:
Foundations and concepts. Springer Nature.
Bloomberg News. (2023). JPMorgan AI analyzes Fed
speeches for trading signals.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-04-
26/jpmorgan-s-ai-puts-25-years-of-federal-reserve-talk-
into-a-hawk-dove-score.
Bodie, Z., Marcus, A.J., and Kane, A. (2018). Investments.
New York: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.
Botte, A. and Bao, Ds. (2021). A machine learning approach
to regime modeling.
https://www.twosigma.com/articles/a-machine-learning-
approach-to-regime-modeling/.
Breiman, L., Friedman, J. H., Olshen, R. A., and Stone, C. J.
(1984). Classification and regression trees. Wadsworth &
Brooks/Cole Advanced Books & Software.
Brubaker, M. A. and Köthe, U. (2021). Normalizing flows
and invertible neural networks in computer vision. CVPR
2021 Tutorial.
--- PAGE 486 ---
Brukbaker, B. (2024). How chain-of-thought reasoning
helps neural networks compute.
https://www.quantamagazine.org/how-chain-of-thought-
reasoning-helps-neural-networks-compute-20240321/.
Bubeck, S., Chandrasekaran, V., Eldan, R., Gehrke, J.,
Horvitz, E., Kamar, E. et al. (2023). Sparks of Artificial
General Intelligence: Early experiments with GPT-4.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.12712.
Catello, L., Ruggiero, L., Schiavone, L., and Valentino, M.
(2023). Hidden Markov models for stock market
prediction. https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.03775.pdf.
Chan, E. (2013). Algorithmic trading: Winning strategies
and their rationale. New York: Wiley.
Chan, E. (2021). Quantitative trading: How to build your
own algorithmic trading business, 2nd ed. New York:
Wiley.
Chan, E. (2022). What is Corrective AI?
https://predictnow.ai/what-is-corrective-ai/.
Chan, E., Fan, H., Sawal, S., and Viville, Q. (2023).
Conditional portfolio optimization: Using machine
learning to adapt capital allocations to market regimes.
https://ssrn.com/abstract=4383184.
Chan, E.P. (2017). Machine trading: Deploying computer
algorithms to conquer the markets. New York: Wiley.
Chen, R.T.Q., Rubanova, Y., Bettencourt, J., and Duvenaud,
D.K. (2018). Neural Ordinary differential equations.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 31.
Chen, X., Duan, Y., Houthooft, R., Schulman, J., Sutskever,
I., and Abbeel, P. (2016). Infogan: Interpretable
--- PAGE 487 ---
representation learning by information maximizing
generative adversarial nets. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 29.
Claburn, T. (2024). Simon Willison interview: AI software
still needs the human touch.
https://www.theregister.com/2024/01/24/willison_ai_sof
tware_development/?utm_source=tldrnewsletter.
Cong, L. W., Feng, G., He, J., and He, X. (2024). Growing
the Efficient Frontier on Panel Trees. Journal of Financial
Economics, Forthcoming,
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3949463.
Cong, L. W., Tang, K., Wang, J., and Zhang, Y. (2021).
AlphaPortfolio: Direct construction through deep
reinforcement learning and interpretable AI.
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3554486.
Denev, A. and Amen, S. (2020). The book of alternative
data: A guide for investors, traders and risk managers.
New York: John Wiley & Sons.
Deng, R., Chang, B., Brubaker M.A., Mori, G., and
Lehrmann, A. (2020). Modeling continuous stochastic
processes with dynamic normalizing flows. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 33, pp. 7805–
7815.
Desai, A., Freeman, C., Wang, Z., and Beaver, I. (2021).
Timevae: A variational auto-encoder for multivariate time
series generation. arXiv Preprint arXiv:2111.08095.
Dettmers, T., Pagnoni, A., Holtzman, A., and Zettlemoyer,
L. (2024). Qlora: Efficient finetuning of quantized LLMS.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36.
--- PAGE 488 ---
Devlin, J., Chang M.-W., Lee, K., and Toutanova, K. (2019).
BERT: Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for
language understanding.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.04805.
Dinh, L., Krueger, D., and Bengio, Y. (2015). NICE: Non-
linear independent components estimation.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1410.8516.
Dinh, L., Sohl-Dickstein, J., and Bengio, S. (2017). Density
estimation using real NVP.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.08803.
Dixon, M. F., Halpern, I., and Bilokon, P. (2020). Machine
learning in finance: From theory to practice. New York:
Springer.
Esteban, C., Hyland, S.L., and Rätsch, G. (2017). Real-
valued (medical) time series generation with recurrent
conditional GANS. arXiv Preprint arXiv:1706.02633.
Fabius, O. and Van Amersfoort, J.R. (2014). Variational
recurrent auto-encoders. arXiv Preprint arXiv:1412.6581.
Fama, E. F. and French, K. R. (1995). Size and book-to-
market factors in earnings and returns. Journal of
Finance, 50, pp. 131–155.
Fortune. (2023). JPMorgan created a Fed-whispering AI
model to help investors stay on top of the market.
https://fortune.com/2023/04/28/jpmorgan-artificial-
intelligence-chatgpt-llm-hawk-dove-federal-reserve-
speak/.
Frey, B.J., Hinton, G.E., and Dayan, P. (1995). Does the
wake-sleep algorithm produce good density estimators?
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 8.
--- PAGE 489 ---
Fuhrer, B., Tessler, C., and Dala, G. (2024). Gradient
Boosting reinforcement learning.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.08250.
Gatheral, J. (2006). The volatility surface: A practitioner’s
guide. New York: Wiley.
Germain, M., Gregor, K., Murray, I., and Larochelle, H.
(2015). MADE: Masked Autoencoder for Distribution
Estimation. https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.03509.
Grinsztajn, L., Oyallon, E., and Varoquaux, G. (2022). Why
do tree-based models still outperform deep learning on
tabular data? https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.08815.
Goodfellow, I., Bengio, Y., and Courville, A. (2016). Deep
learning. MIT Press.
Goodfellow, I.J. Pouget-Abadie, J., Mirza, M., Xu, B., Warde-
Farley, D., Sherjil et al. (2014). Generative adversarial
networks. https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.2661.
Goodfellow, I. (2019). Adversarial machine learning.
Invited talk at ICLR.
Gou, J., Baosheng, Y., Maybank, S.J., and Tao, D. (2021).
Knowledge distillation: A survey. International Journal of
Computer Vision, 129(6), pp. 1789–1819.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11263-021-01453-z.
Guida, Ty. (2019). Big data and machine learning in
quantitative investment. New York: John Wiley & Sons.
Guijarro-Ordonez, J., Pelger, M., and Zanotti, G. (2022).
Deep learning statistical arbitrage.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.04028.
--- PAGE 490 ---
Guijarro-Ordonez, J., Pelger, M., and Zanotti, G. (2021).
Deep learning statistical arbitrage. arXiv Preprint
arXiv:2106.04028.
Gulrajani, I., Ahmed, F., Arjovsky, M., Dumoulin, V., and
Courville, A. (2017). Improved training of Wasserstein
GANs. https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.00028.
Hastie, T., Tobshirani, R., and Friedman, J. (2009). The
elements of statistical learning. 2nd ed. New York:
Springer.
Heusel, M., Ramsauer, H., Unterthiner, T., Nessler, B., and
Hochreiter, S. (2018). GANs trained by a two time-scale
update rule converge to a local Nash equilibrium.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.08500.
Hinton, G., Vinyals, O., and Dean, J. (2015). Distilling the
knowledge in a neural network.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1503.02531.
Ho, J., Jain, A., and Abbeel, P. (2020). Denoising diffusion
probabilistic models. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 33, pp. 6840–6851.
Hornik, K., Stinchcombe, M., and White, H. (1989).
Multilayer feedforward networks are universal
approximators. Neural Networks, 2(5), pp. 359–366.
Houlsby, N., Giurgiu, A., Jastrzebski, S., Morrone, B., De
Laroussilhe, Q., Gesmundo, A., et al. (2019). Parameter-
efficient transfer learning for NLP. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 2790–2799. PMLR.
Hu, E.J., Shen, Y., Wallis, P. Allen-Zhu, Z., Li, Y., Wang, S.
et al. (2021). LORA: Low-rank adaptation of large
language models. arXiv Preprint arXiv:2106.09685.
--- PAGE 491 ---
Jacob, B., Kligys, S., Chen, B., Zhu, M., Tang, M., Howard,
A. et al. (2017). Quantization and training of neural
networks for efficient integer-arithmetic-only inference.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1712.05877.
Kaplan, J., McCandlish, S., Henighan, T., Brown, T.B..,
Chess, B., Child, R. et al. (2020). Scaling laws for neural
language models. https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.08361.
Kıcıman, E., Ness, R., Sharma, A., and Tan, C. (2023).
Causal reasoning and large language models: Opening a
new frontier for causality.
https://arxiv.org/abs/(2305).00050.
Kingma, D.P. (2013). Auto-encoding variational Bayes.
arXiv Preprint arXiv:1312.6114.
Kingma, D.P., Salimans, T., Jozefowicz, R., Chen, X.,
Sutskever, I., and Welling, M. (2016). Improved
variational inference with inverse autoregressive flow.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 29.
Kinlaw, W., Kritzman, M.P., and Turkington, D. (2021).
Asset allocation: From theory to practice and beyond.
New York: John Wiley & Sons.
Kobyzev, I., Prince, S.J.D., and Brubaker, M.A. (2021).
Normalizing flows: An introduction and review of current
methods. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and
Machine Intelligence, 43 (11), pp. 3964–3979.
https://doi.org/10.1109/tpami.(2020).2992934.
Kolm, P., Turiel, J., and Westray, N. (2021). Deep order
flow imbalance: Extracting alpha at multiple horizons
from the Limit Order Book. SSRN:
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3900141.
--- PAGE 492 ---
Larochelle, H. and Murray, I. (2011). The neural
autoregressive distribution estimator. In Proceedings of
the Fourteenth International Conference on Artificial
Intelligence and Statistics, 29–37. JMLR Workshop;
Conference Proceedings.
Lester, B., Al-Rfou, R., and Constant, N. (2021). The power
of scale for parameter-efficient prompt tuning. arXiv
Preprint arXiv:2104.08691.
Levine, S. (2021). Lecture slides on designing, visualizing
and understanding deep neural networks, CS
W182/282A. Course, University of California, Berkeley.
https://cs182sp21.github.io.
Li, X.L. and Liang, P. (2021). Prefix-tuning: Optimizing
continuous prompts for generation. arXiv Preprint
arXiv:2101.00190.
Liu, S., Yu, H., Liao, C., Li, J., Lin, W., Liu, A.X. et al.
(2021). Pyraformer: Low-complexity pyramidal attention
for long-range time series modeling and forecasting. In
International Conference on Learning Representations.
López de Prado, M. (2015). The probability of backtest
overfitting. Journal of Computational Finance (Risk
Journals), 34, pp. 123–137.
López de Prado, M. (2018). Advances in financial machine
learning. New York: Wiley.
López de Prado, M.M. (2020). Machine learning for asset
managers. Elements in quantitative finance. Cambridge
University Press.
Malo, P., Sinha, A., Korhonen, P., Wallenius, J., and Takala,
P. (2014). Good debt or bad debt: Detecting semantic
orientations in economic texts. Journal of the Association
--- PAGE 493 ---
for Information Science and Technology, 65 (4), pp. 782–
796.
Man, X. and Chan, E. P. (2021a). The best way to select
features? Comparing MDA, LIME, and SHAP. The
Journal of Financial Data Science, 3(1), pp. 127–139.
Man, X. and Chan, E. (2021b). Cluster-based feature
selection. Market Technician, 90, pp. 11–22.
Mao, X., Li, Q., Xie, H., Lau, R.Y.K., Wang, Z., and Smolley,
S.P. (2017). Least squares generative adversarial
networks. https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.04076.
Medina Ruiz, H. J. (2019). Predicting Criteo’s internet
traffic load using Bayesian structural time series models.
Presented at the Strata Data Conference.
https://conferences.oreilly.com/strata/strata-ny-
2019/public/schedule/detail/77395.html.
Mescheder, L., Andreas G., and Sebastian N. (2018). Which
training methods for GANs do actually
converge? https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.04406.
Miyato, T., Kataoka, T., Koyama, M., and Yoshida, Y.
(2018). Spectral normalization for generative adversarial
networks. https://arxiv.org/abs/1802.05957.
Murphy, K. (2012). Machine learning: A probabilistic
perspective. Boston, MA: MIT Press.
Murphy, K.P. (2022). Probabilistic machine learning: An
introduction. Boston, MA: MIT Press. probml.ai.
Murphy, K.P. (2023). Probabilistic machine learning:
Advanced topics. Boston, MA: MIT Press.
http://probml.github.io/book2.
--- PAGE 494 ---
Nautiyal, A. and Chan, E. (2021). Metalabeling and the
duality between cross-sectional and time-series factors.
Retrieved from https://predictnow.ai/metalabeling-and-
the-duality-between-cross-sectional-and-time-series-
factors/.
Nalisnick, E., Matsukawa, A., Teh, Y.W., Gorur, D., and
Lakshminarayanan, B. (2019). Hybrid models with deep
and invertible features. In International Conference on
Machine Learning, pp. 4723–4732. PMLR.
Nguyen, A., Yosinski, J., and Clune, J. (2015). Deep neural
networks are easily fooled: High confidence predictions
for unrecognizable images. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pp. 427–436.
Oord, A., Dieleman, S., Zen, H., Simonyan, K., Vinyals, O.,
Graves, A. et al. (2016a). WaveNet: A generative model
for raw audio. https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.03499.
Oord, A., Kalchbrenner, N., and Kavukcuoglu, K. (2016b).
Pixel recurrent neural networks.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1601.06759.
Ouyang, L., Wu, J., Jiang, X., Almeida, D., Wainwright, C.L.,
Mishkin, P. et al. (2022). Training language models to
follow instructions with human feedback. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 35, pp. 27730–
27744.
Paleologo, G.A. (2021). Advanced portfolio management: A
quant’s guide for fundamental investors. New York:
Wiley.
Papamakarios, G., Nalisnick, E., Rezende, D.J., Mohamed,
S., and Lakshminarayanan, B. (2021). Normalizing flows
--- PAGE 495 ---
for probabilistic modeling and inference. Journal of
Machine Learning Research, 22(57), pp. 1–64.
Papamakarios, G., Pavlakou, T., and Murray, I. (2017).
Masked autoregressive flow for density estimation.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 30.
Part Time Larry. (2022). 2. OpenAI whisper—Fed speech
recognition. https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=Wc4bQxuypo0.
Peters, M., Neumann, M., Iyyer, M., Gardner, M., Clark,
C., Lee, K. et al. (2018). Deep contextualized word
representations. https://arxiv.org/abs/(1802).05365.
Pik, J., Chan, E., Broad, J. and Sun, P. (2025) Hands-On AI
Trading with Python, QuantConnect and AWS. New York:
Wiley.
Prado, R. and West, M. (2010). Time series: Modeling,
computation, and inference. Chapman; Hall/CRC.
Radford, A., Wu, J., Jiang, X., Almeida, D., Wainwright, C.L.,
Mishkin, P. et al. (2019). Language models are
unsupervised multitask learners. OpenAI Blog, 1(8), p. 9.
Radford, A., Kim, J.W., Xu, T., Brockman, G., McLeavey, C.,
Sutskever, I. (2022). Robust speech recognition via
large-scale weak supervision.
https://arxiv.org/abs/(2212).04356.
Radford, A. Narasimhan, K., Salimans, T., Sutskever, I.
(2018). Improving language understanding by generative
pre-training.
Rafailov, R., Sharma, A., Mitchell, E., Manning, C.D.,
Ermon, S., and Finn, C. (2024). Direct preference
optimization: your language model is secretly a reward
--- PAGE 496 ---
model. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36.
Raffel, C., Shazeer, N., Roberts, A., Lee, K., Narang, S.,
Matena, M. et al. (2020). Exploring the limits of transfer
learning with a unified text-to-text transformer. Journal
of Machine Learning Research, 21(140), pp. 1–67.
Rasul, K., Sheikh, A-S., Schuster, I., Bergmann, U.M., and
Vollgraf, R. (2021). Multivariate probabilistic time series
forecasting via conditioned normalizing flows. In
International Conference on Learning Representations.
https://openreview.net/forum?id=WiGQBFuVRv.
Rasul, K., Ashok, A., Williams, A.R., Ghonia, H.,
Bhagwatkar, R., Khorasani, A. et al. (2024). Lag-Llama:
Towards foundation models for probabilistic time series
forecasting. https://arxiv.org/abs/(2310).08278.
Romero, A., Ballas, N., Kahou, S.E., Chassang, A., Gatta, C.,
and Bengio, Y. (2015). FitNets: Hints for thin deep nets.
https://arxiv.org/abs/(1412).6550.
Ruppert, D., and Matteson, D. S. (2015). Statistics and data
analysis for financial engineering with R examples. 2nd
ed. New York: Springer.
Salimans, T., Goodfellow, I., Zaremba, W., Cheung, V.,
Radford, A., and Chen, X. (2016). Improved techniques
for training GANs. https://arxiv.org/abs/(1606).03498.
Shwartz-Ziv, R. and Armon, A. (2021). Tabular data: Deep
learning is not all you need.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.03253.
Simon, D.P. and Campasano, J. (2014). The VIX futures
basis: evidence and trading strategies.
https://www.efmaefm.org/0EFMAMEETINGS/EFMA%20
--- PAGE 497 ---
ANNUAL%20MEETINGS/2013-
Reading/papers/EFMA2013_0164_fullpaper.pdf.
Sirignano, J. and Cont, R. (2018). Universal features of
price formation in financial markets: Perspectives from
deep learning. https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.06917.pdf.
Smith, L. N. (2017, March). Cyclical learning rates for
training neural networks. In 2017 IEEE Winter
Conference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV),
pp. 464–472. IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/WACV.2017.58.
Sohl-Dickstein, J., Weiss, E., Maheswaranathan, N., and
Ganguli, S. (2015). Deep unsupervised learning using
nonequilibrium thermodynamics. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2256–2265. PMLR.
Sood, S., Papasotiriou, K., Vaiciulis, M., and Balch, T.
(2023). Deep reinforcement learning for optimal
portfolio allocation: A comparative study with mean-
variance optimization. https://icaps23.icaps-
conference.org/papers/finplan/FinPlan23_paper_4.pdf.
Srivastava, N., Hinton, G., Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., and
Salakhutdinov, R. (2014). Dropout: A simple way to
prevent neural networks from overfitting. Journal of
Machine Learning Research, 15(1), pp. 1929–1958.
Torralba, A., Isola, P., and Freeman, W.T. (2024).
Foundations of computer vision. Boston, MA: MIT Press.
Touvron, H., Lavril, T., Izacard, G., Martinet, X., Lachaux,
M.-A., Lacroix, T. et al. (2023). LLaMA: Open and
efficient foundation language models. arXiv. arXiv
Preprint arXiv:2302.13971.
--- PAGE 498 ---
Tunstall, L., Von Werra, L., and Wolf, T. (2022). Natural
language processing with transformers. O’Reilly Media,
Inc.
Vaswani, A., Shazeer, N., Parmar, N., Uszkoreit, J., Jones,
L., Gomez, A.N., Kaiser, L., and Polosukhin, I. (2023).
Attention is all you need.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762.
Vig, J. (2019). A multiscale visualization of attention in the
transformer model. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: System Demonstrations, pp. 37–42.
Florence, Italy: Association for Computational
Linguistics. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P19-3007.
Wei, J., Wang, X., Schuurmans, D., Bosma, M., Ichter, B.,
Xia, F. et al. (2023). Chain-of-thought prompting elicits
reasoning in large language models.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903.
Wei, J. Tay, Y., Bommasani, R., Raffel, C., Zoph, B.,
Borgeaud. S. et al. (2022). Emergent abilities of large
language models. https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.07682.
Wen, Q., Zhou, T., Zhang, C., Chen, W., Ma, Z., Yan, J., and
Sun, L. (2023). Transformers in time series: A survey.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2202.07125.
WGN News. (2022). WATCH LIVE | Fed Chair Powell
Discusses Latest Fed Rate Hike.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NT2H9iyd-ms.
Williams, R.J. (1992). Simple statistical gradient-following
algorithms for connectionist reinforcement learning.
Machine Learning, 8, pp. 229–256.
--- PAGE 499 ---
WWW ’18: Companion Proceedings of the Web Conference.
(2018). Republic; Canton of Geneva, CHE: International
World Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee.
Xue, C., Lute, J., Schonfeld, D., Han, G., and Dahlmann, L.
(2023). How eBay created a language model with three
billion item titles.
https://innovation.ebayinc.com/tech/engineering/how-
ebay-created-a-language-model-with-three-billion-item-
titles/.
Yang, L., Zhang, Z., Song, Y., Hong, S., Xu, R., Zhao, Y. et
al. (2023). Diffusion models: A comprehensive survey of
methods and applications. ACM Computing Surveys,
56(4), pp. 1–39.
Yang, Y., Jin, M., Wen, H., Zhang, C., Liang, Y., Ma, L. et al.
(2024). A survey on diffusion models for time series and
spatio-temporal data. arXiv Preprint arXiv:2404.18886.
Yoon, J., Jarrett, D., and van der Schaar, M. (2019). Time-
series generative adversarial networks. In H. Wallach, H.
Larochelle, A. Beygelzimer, F. dAlché-Buc, E. Fox, and R.
Garnett, Eds. Advances in neural information processing
systems (Vol. 32). Curran Associates, Inc.
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2019/fi
le/c9efe5f26cd17ba6216bbe2a7d26d490-Paper.pdf.
Zaken, E.B., Ravfogel, S., and Goldberg, Y. (2021). Bitfit:
Simple parameter-efficient fine-tuning for transformer-
based masked language-models. arXiv Preprint
arXiv:2106.10199.
Zhang, Z., Zohren, S., and Roberts, S. (2019). deep
reinforcement learning for trading.
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.10107.pdf.
--- PAGE 500 ---
Zhou, H., Zhang, S., Peng, J., Zhang, S., Li, J., Xiong, H. et
al. (2021). Informer: Beyond efficient transformer for
long sequence time-series forecasting.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.07436.
Zhu, Y., Kiros, R., Zemel, R., Salakhutdinov, R., Urtasun, R.,
Torralba, A., and Fidler, S. (2015). Aligning books and
movies: Towards story-like visual explanations by
watching movies and reading books.
https://arxiv.org/abs/1506.06724.
Zhuang, Y., Liu, L, Singh, C., Shang, J., and Gao, J. (2024).
Learning a decision tree algorithm with transformers.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.03774.
Zuckerman, G. (2019). The man who solved the market:
How Jim Simons launched the quant revolution. Penguin
Publishing Group. https://books.google.fr/books?
id=2vm0DwAAQBAJ.
--- PAGE 501 ---
Appendix
A.1 Retrieving Adjusted Closing Prices
and Computing Daily Returns
It is often a more reliable way to get correct responses from
ChatGPT if we ask for codes instead of actual numerical
responses. We display the results here.
User Prompt
Display the Python codes that let us retrieve 100 most
recent days of adjusted closing prices of SPY from Yahoo
Finance.
Assuming that you are not an expert programmer, at least not
in Python, we can also prompt for instructions of installing
Python, which we displayed in Appendix A.2. As suggested
there, we can copy and paste the following commands in
Jupyter Notebook which runs in your internet browser or run
it in the Spyder IDE.
--- PAGE 502 ---
ChatGPT Response
import yfinance as yf
import pandas as pd
# Define the ticker symbol
tickerSymbol = 'SPY'
# Get data on this ticker
tickerData = yf.Ticker(tickerSymbol)
# Get the historical prices for this ticker
tickerDf = tickerData.history(period='1d',
start='2023-08-25', end='2023-12-12')
# Only keep the Adjusted Close column
adjusted_close = tickerDf['Close']
# Display the last 100 days of adjusted closing
prices
print(adjusted_close.tail(100))
It goes on to respond that
--- PAGE 503 ---
ChatGPT Response
This script does the following:
Imports the necessary libraries (yfinance and pandas).
Defines the ticker symbol for the SPY ETF.
Fetches the historical data for SPY from Yahoo Finance.
Extracts the Adjusted Close prices.
Prints the last 100 days of adjusted closing prices.
Make sure to adjust the start and end dates in the history
method to match the current date and go back 100 days
from there. The yfinance library automatically adjusts for
dividends and stock splits.
Is it really true that “The yfinance library automatically
adjusts for dividends and stock splits”? We have checked the
first line of the output,
2023-08-25 00:00:00-04:00 436.653168
indeed matched the adjusted closing price displayed on
Yahoo Finance at the time of this writing. How do we
download the printed data in the browser into a csv file?
User Prompt
How do we download the data generated in the previous
program into a csv file with the first column being date
and second column the price?
--- PAGE 504 ---
ChatGPT Response
…
# Save the last 100 days of adjusted closing prices
to a CSV file
adjusted_close.tail(100).to_csv('SPY_last_100_days.c
sv', header=True)
print("Data saved to 'SPY_last_100_days.csv'")
You can check that SPY_last_100_days.csv is now created in
the book4_py/ folder where you created the Python
environment. Now we want to compute daily returns.
User Prompt
Great! Please display the codes that use the retrieved
prices to compute daily returns.
ChatGPT Response
...
# Compute daily returns
daily_returns = adjusted_close.pct_change()
# Display the last 100 days of daily returns
print(daily_returns.tail(100))
Of course, we can print that to a csv file
‘SPY_returns_last_100_days.csv’ using the same method as
above. You can easily spot check that the daily returns are
computed correctly.
--- PAGE 505 ---
A.2 Installing Python
As we mentioned in Appendix A.1, we wanted to use Python
to retrieve historical prices. To do that, we first need to
install Python on our Windows desktop, and then to install
the yfinance (Yahoo Finance) package in Step 4 that follows.
(Obviously, if you are already a Python programmer, you can
skip this section. Remember: We are writing this chapter
from the point of view of a novice Python programmer.)
User Prompt
How do I install a python environment on my Windows
desktop?
--- PAGE 506 ---
ChatGPT Response
Installing Python Installing a Python environment on your
Windows desktop is a straightforward process. Here’s a
step-by-step guide to get you started:
A.2.1 Step 1: Download Python
1. Visit the Official Python Website: Go to python.org.
2. Navigate to Downloads: The website typically
detects your operating system and displays the latest
version of Python for Windows.
3. Download Python: Click on the download link for
Windows. It’s usually recommended to download the
latest stable version.
A.2.2 Step 2: Install Python
1. Run the Installer: Once the download is complete,
open the installer.
2. Select Installation Options:
Check “Add Python to PATH”: This is crucial as
it allows you to run Python from the Command
Prompt.
Choose Customize Installation (Optional): You
can customize features if needed, but the default
settings are usually sufficient for most users.
3. Proceed with the Installation: Click on “Install
Now” and wait for the installation to complete.
4. Verify Installation:
Open Command Prompt.
Type python --version and press Enter. This
should display the Python version, confirming that
--- PAGE 507 ---
it’s installed.
A.2.3 Step 3: Set Up a Virtual Environment (Optional
but Recommended)
Python’s virtual environments allow you to manage
separate package installations for different projects. They
prevent conflicts between project dependencies.
1. Open Command Prompt: Navigate to the folder
where you want to create your project.
2. Create a Virtual Environment:
Run python -m venv myenv (replace myenv with your
desired environment name).
This creates a folder named myenv in your project
directory containing the virtual environment.
3. Activate the Virtual Environment:
For Windows, run myenv\Scripts\activate.
You’ll know it’s activated when the command line
prefix changes to show the name of your
environment.
A.2.4 Step 4: Install Packages with pip
With Python installed, you can use pip to install packages:
To install a package, use pip install package-name.
Remember to activate your virtual environment first if
you’re using one.
[Author’s Note: this should be pip install yfinance.]
--- PAGE 508 ---
A.2.5 Step 5: Consider an Integrated Development
Environment (IDE)
While not necessary, an IDE can make coding in Python
much easier. Popular choices include:
PyCharm
Visual Studio Code
Jupyter Notebook (great for data science projects)
[Author’s Note: Why it doesn’t recommend Spyder that
automatically comes with the Anaconda library is beyond
us. For a quick and easy start, we recommend Jupyter
Notebook since it can run in a web browser. How do we
do that? See the next prompt.]
A.2.6 Additional Tips
Regularly Update Python: Keep your Python version
up-to-date for security and feature improvements.
Explore Python Libraries: Python has a vast
ecosystem of libraries for different purposes—web
development, data analysis, machine learning, etc.
Learn Python Basics: If you’re new to Python,
consider going through some tutorials to understand
the basics.
By following these steps, you should have a functional
Python environment set up on your Windows desktop.
User Prompt
Assuming that I have installed a Python Virtual
Environment called book4_py on the Windows desktop,
how can I install Jupyter Notebook as an IDE?
--- PAGE 509 ---
ChatGPT Response
Install Jupyter Notebook:
Once your virtual environment is active, you can install
Jupyter Notebook using pip. Run the following
command:
pip install notebook
This command will download and install Jupyter Notebook
and its dependencies in your book4_py virtual
environment.
Launch Jupyter Notebook:
After the installation is complete, you can start Jupyter
Notebook by running:
jupyter notebook
You will find a new browser window opens with Jupyter
notebook running. You just need to navigate to whatever
folder that you want to download your adjusted closing price
data and copy and paste the code in Appendix A.1.
A.3 Plotting the Risk-free-rate over the
Years
Many financial applications such as Sharpe ratio calculation
require the use of the risk-free rate (Rf ). However, ChatGPT
found it difficult to locate a website to download this for free
and in a convenient format. So we use the returns of the
short-term treasury bills ETF called BIL as a proxy.
--- PAGE 510 ---
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.dates as mdates
# Load your CSV file
file_path = 'BIL.csv' # Replace with your file path
data_plot = pd.read_csv(file_path)
# Converting 'Date' column to datetime format
data_plot['Date'] = pd.to_datetime(data_plot['Date'])
# Calculating daily returns and annualizing them
data_plot['Daily Returns'] =
data_plot['Close'].pct_change()
data_plot['Annualized Returns'] = data_plot['Daily
Returns'] * 252 # Annualizing the returns
# Plotting the annualized returns
plt.figure(figsize=(12, 6))
plt.plot(data_plot['Date'], data_plot['Annualized
Returns'], color='green', marker='o', linestyle='-',
linewidth=2)
plt.title('Annualized Returns Over Time')
plt.xlabel('Year')
plt.ylabel('Annualized Returns')
plt.grid(True)
plt.xticks(rotation=45)
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_formatter(mdates.DateFormatte
r('%Y')) # Only year as x-axis labels
plt.gca().xaxis.set_major_locator(mdates.YearLocator())
plt.tight_layout()
# Show plot
plt.show()
If you want to download the plot in Figure A.1 instead of just
displaying it in Jupyter Notebook, prompt ChatGPT on the
instructions. It will respond with
--- PAGE 511 ---
ChatGPT Response
# Saving the plot as a PNG file
plot_file_path = 'your_plot.png'
...
# Save the figure
plt.savefig(plot_file_path)
Figure A.1 BIL annualized returns.
Though the chart was plotted correctly, the daily returns
show too much volatility for us to gain any insights and more
importantly, check whether the returns are sensible. (After
all, this is an ETF that is traded every microsecond, not the
Federal Funds Rate set by the Federal Open Market
Committee.) A moving average over approximately a month
should look better.
User Prompt
Replot the above with 20-day moving average
--- PAGE 512 ---
Unfortunately, it couldn’t for some technical reasons, but it
did generate codes that we can use. The key line is
# Calculate the 20-day moving average
data_plot['20-Day MA'] = data_plot['Annualized
Returns'].
rolling(window=20).mean()
Now we can see in Figure A.2 clearly the almost zero interest
rate due to Quantitative Easing since 2008’s Great Financial
Crisis, until it gradually rose starting in 2017 as the economy
recovered, and then another plunge to zero during the 2020
COVID era, before it steadily rose again in 2022 in response
to the inflationary pressure due to the enormous fiscal
stimulus, settling at above 5% at the end of 2023.
Figure A.2 Twenty-day moving average of annualized
BIL returns.
So, after a lot of work, we are satisfied that the BIL data is
retrieved correctly and daily returns computed correctly. We
will also use this 20-day moving average returns as the Rf for
other applications. So
--- PAGE 513 ---
User Prompt
How can I download the dates and moving average
numbers to a csv file with 2 columns?
ChatGPT Response
Select only the ‘Date’ and ‘20-Day MA’ columns for export
export_data = data_plot[['Date', '21-Day MA']]
Save to a CSV file
export_file_path =
'BIL_annualized_returns_20_day_MA.csv'
export_data.to_csv(export_file_path, index=False)
A.4 Computing the Sharpe Ratio of SPY
We computed the daily returns of SPY in Appendix A.1, and
the risk-free rate (Rf) in Appendix A.3. Now let’s use them to
compute the Sharpe ratio of SPY.
User Prompt
Suppose a daily returns series A is stored in A.csv, and the
daily risk free rate is stored in B.csv, and the dates of A
and B are not identical though they overlap, how do we
compute the Sharpe ratio of A? Please display the Python
code.
--- PAGE 514 ---
ChatGPT Response
To compute the Sharpe Ratio for a series of daily returns
(Series A) with a corresponding series of daily risk-free
rates (Series B), you’ll need to align the two series on
their common dates. The Sharpe Ratio is typically
calculated as the average return of the investment minus
the risk-free rate, divided by the standard deviation of the
investment’s returns. Here’s a step-by-step guide to
perform this calculation in Python:
Load both datasets. Align the datasets on their dates.
Compute the excess returns by subtracting the risk-free
rate from Series A’s returns. Calculate the Sharpe Ratio
using the formula: (Average Excess Returns) / (Standard
Deviation of Excess Returns).
The Python code to achieve this would look something like
this:
--- PAGE 515 ---
import pandas as pd
# Load Series A (investment returns) and Series B
(risk-free rate)
series_a = pd.read_csv('path_to_your_csv/A.csv')
series_b = pd.read_csv('path_to_your_csv/B.csv')
# Convert the 'Date' columns to datetime and ensure
they are the index
series_a['Date'] = pd.to_datetime(series_a['Date'])
series_b['Date'] = pd.to_datetime(series_b['Date'])
series_a.set_index('Date', inplace=True)
series_b.set_index('Date', inplace=True)
# Align the two series on their dates
aligned_a, aligned_b = series_a.align(series_b,
join='inner')
# Calculate excess returns
"""
[Author Note: remembering that the RiskFreeRate
is annualized, we manually insert /252 in the
line below]
[Author Note: beware that the header for the
returns columns may not be called Returns or
RiskFreeRate in your files. Adapt accordingly.]
"""
excess_returns = aligned_a['Returns'] -
aligned_b['RiskFreeRate']/252
# Compute Sharpe Ratio
sharpe_ratio = excess_returns.mean() /
excess_returns.std()
# Adjust for annualization if necessary
# If returns are daily, multiply Sharpe Ratio by
sqrt(number of trading days)
from math import sqrt
trading_days = 252
annualized_sharpe_ratio = sharpe_ratio *
--- PAGE 516 ---
sqrt(trading_days)
print("Sharpe Ratio:", sharpe_ratio)
print("Annualized Sharpe Ratio:",
annualized_sharpe_ratio)
It turns out the code isn’t completely correct: aligned_a and
aligned_b contain only dates, not the returns.
User Prompt
Something wrong with the code above: aligned_a and
aligned_b do not contain the returns, only the dates.
ChatGPT replaces the code with
ChatGPT Response
...
# Merge the datasets on the 'Date' column
merged_data = pd.merge(series_a, series_b,
on='Date', how='inner')
# Assuming your returns column in series_a is named
'Returns' and
# the risk-free rate column in series_b is named
'RiskFreeRate'
# Calculate excess returns
merged_data['ExcessReturns'] =
merged_data['Returns'] - merged_data['RiskFreeRate']
# Compute Sharpe Ratio
sharpe_ratio = merged_data['ExcessReturns'].mean() /
merged_data['ExcessReturns'].std()
...
--- PAGE 517 ---
which finally produced
Sharpe Ratio: 0.06826677308094933
Annualized Sharpe Ratio: 1.0837014262864237
A.5 Matlab Code for Computing
Efficient Frontier and Finding the
Tangency Portfolio
This is the code from Machine Trading (Chan, 2017). For
simplicity, we have assumed the risk-free rate (Rf) to be 0. It
is also available for download from our GitHub repos.
--- PAGE 518 ---
% ef.m
% Find efficient frontier of a set of ETFs
% Note in this program mean and sd of returns are row
vectors,
clear;
load('inputDataOHLCDaily_ETF_20150417', 'stocks',
'tday', 'cl');
% Remove EWZ and FXI
stocks=stocks(~strcmp('EWZ', stocks) & ~strcmp('FXI',
stocks));
cl=cl(:, ~strcmp('EWZ', stocks) & ~strcmp('FXI',
stocks));
R=calculateReturns(cl, 1); % 1-period "net" returns
R(1, :)=[]; % Skip first row since returns there are
NaN
mi=mean(R, 1); % average return of each stock i.
C=cov(R); % covariance of returns
m=[min(mi):(max(mi)-min(mi))/20:max(mi)]; % prepare
different target mean portfolio returns for efficient
frontier
v=NaN(size(m));
% Variance of portfolio to be minimized
H=2*C;
% short sale constraint
A=-eye(length(mi));
b=zeros(length(mi), 1);
% No linear term in minimization
f=zeros(1, length(mi));
% Fixing portfolio mean return and the normalization
constraint
Aeq=[mi; ones(1, length(mi))];
--- PAGE 519 ---
for i=1:length(m)
beq=[m(i); 1];
[F, v(i)]=quadprog(H, f, A, b, Aeq, beq);
end
sd=sqrt(v);
scatter(sd, m);
hold on;
% Find tangency portfolio
sharpeRatio=m./sd;
[~, idx]=max(sharpeRatio);
scatter(sd(idx), m(idx), 'red');
beq=[m(idx); 1];
[F]=quadprog(H, f, A, b, Aeq, beq)
% F =
%
% 0.451338068065785
% 0.263444604411169
% 0.000019328104256
% 0.000004913963978
% 0.000007497342085
% 0.285185588112728
% Find minimum variance portfolio
[~, idxMin]=min(sd);
scatter(sd(idxMin), m(idxMin), 'green', 'filled');
beq=[m(idxMin); 1];
[F]=quadprog(H, f, A, b, Aeq, beq)
% F =
%
% 0.381518036613685
% 0.000033166607068
% 0.604011066007258
% 0.000133505575004
--- PAGE 520 ---
% 0.014299849485899
% 0.000004375711085
It produces the nice plot in Figure A.3, with the green dot
indicating the minimum variance portfolio and the red circle
indicating the tangency portfolio (with maximum Sharpe
ratio).
Figure A.3 Efficient Frontier produced by Matlab
codes.
--- PAGE 521 ---
Index
A
accuracy of prediction, 85–86
ADF (augmented Dickey-Fuller test), 103
alternative data input, 47
amortized inference, 174
Ancestral sampling, 130
Anscombe quartet, 85
--- PAGE 522 ---
AR (autoregressive) models, 125
CMNN (Causal Masked Neural Network), 128, 131–133
WaveNet, 132–133
logistic regression, 128
logistic regression model, 128–129
MADE (Masked Autoencoder for Density Estimation),
130–131
NN (neural networks), 128
CMNN (Causal Masked Neural Network), 128, 131–
133
RNN (Recurrent Neural Network), 128
representation complexity, 126
reduction, 127–128
RNN (Recurrent Neural Network), 133–134
transformer models, 134–135
Add blocks, 148
attention, 135–144
multi-headed, 146–147
Encoder layer, 148–149
feed-forward layer, 147–148
model objective, 149–150
Norm blocks, 148
positional encodings, 145–146
ASR (automatic speech recognition), 222
--- PAGE 523 ---
ATM (At-The-Money) option
Matlab Financial Toolbox, 60–61
OTM options, 63
term structure, 58
attention, transformer models
BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers) matrix, 136–139
BertViz, 137–140
context dependence, 135
hard attention, 140
Hugging Face library, 135–137
multi-headed, 146–147
NLP (Natural Language Processing) and, 135
scaled dot-product, 141–143
soft attention, 140
token embeddings, 135
Token IDs, 135–137
tokenization, 135
unnormalized scores, 142
visualizing, 137–140
augmented Dickey-Fuller test (ADF), 103
automatic speech recognition (ASR), 222
Autoregressive Flows, MAF (Masked Autoregressive Flow),
195
autoregressive models, 155. See also Maximum Likelihood
models
--- PAGE 524 ---
B
backpropagation, 93–95
backtesting code, 29, 44–45
creating from trading strategies, 34–45
backwardation, 36–37
VIX term structure, 37
BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers), 134–135
bidirectional context, 226
FinBERT, 229–231
input representation, 226–227
language modeling, 149–150
output representation, 227–228
sentiment analysis, 225–231
beta neutral (BN) trading strategies, 34–35
betas, constant_maturity_betas, 35
bidirectional context, BERT, 226
BIL (SPDR Bloomberg 1-3 Month T-Bill ETF), 7
binary MNIST, 128–129
Black-Scholes options pricing model, 50–66
implied volatility, 63
stochastic volatility, 63
BN (beta neutral) trading strategies, 34–35
boosted trees, 89–91
--- PAGE 525 ---
butterfly spreads in time, term structure arbitrage
strategies, 51
C
CAI (Corrective AI), 45, 72, 78
calendar spreads, term structure arbitrage strategies
backtesting and, 102
butterfly spreads, 51
diagonal spreads, 51
dynamic hedging strategies, 51
horizontal spreads, 50
implementation, 51–52
interest rate options arbitrage, 51
Long-term Option (buy), 52
OHLC trade bars, 102
Short-Term Option (sell), 52
variance swaps, 51
volatility surface arbitrage, 51
Calmar ratio, 84
CAPM (Capital Asset Pricing Model), 19
CART, tree-based models, 89–90
boosted trees, 89
random forest, 89
Causal Masked Neural Network (CMNN), 128, 131–133
WaveNet, 132–133
--- PAGE 526 ---
ChatGPT
as autoregressive model, 114–118
conceptual intelligence, 29
need for human interaction, 64–65
prompt examples, 4
response examples, 4
sampling strategies, 118
statistical information extraction, 10
technical details, issues with, 45
ChatGPT GPT4o, 3
response example, 115
closing prices, adjusting, 263–265
cMDA (cluster-based Feature Selection), 71, 76–77, 85
CMNN (Causal Masked Neural Network), 128, 131–133
WaveNet, 132–133
codes, from strategy specification, 19–33
conditional generative models, 111–112
conditional probability, 115–117
confusion matrix, 87
constant_maturity_betas, 35
contango, 36
VIX term structure, 37
Continuous Normalizing Flows, 195–196
Corrective AI (CAI), 45, 72, 78
correlation coefficient , 60
--- PAGE 527 ---
coupling flows, 188
NICE (Nonlinear Independent Components Estimation),
189, 190–191
Real-NVP (Non-volume Preserving Transformation), 189,
191–195
CPO (Conditional Parameter/Portfolio Optimization), 45,
72, 78–79
cross-sectional features, 26
NICE (Nonlinear Independent Components Estimation),
196
Real-NVP (Non-volume Preserving Transformation), 196
time-series, 104, 178
csv files, output, 6
cumulative returns curve, 33
D
daily returns
adjusted closing prices and, 263–265
backtesting and, 4
computing requirements, 4
factor data and, 68–69
MSFT daily returns, 96
SPDR Bloomberg 1-3 Month T-Bill ETF, 7
SPY daily returns, 96
DALL-E, 260
data, non-numeric, 9–10
--- PAGE 528 ---
data engineering
dividends, 101
look-ahead bias, 101–102
split adjustments, 101
survivorship bias, 101
unique identifiers, 100–101
data formatting, 8–10
decision boundary, 87
dendrogram for stock tickers, 74
denoising, 75
denormalization, time series transformers, 151
dequantization, 151
derived distribution, 184
design matrix, 79
diagonal spreads, term structure arbitrage strategies, 51
Diffusion Models, 260
discriminative models, 110–111
generative models hybrid, 119
dividends, data engineering and, 101
DLGM (deep latent Gaussian model), 170–171
DLMs (dynamic linear models), 178
DLVM (deep latent variable models), 161, 170–171
DNN (Deep Neural Networks), 120–121, 183–184
dollar-neutral portfolio, Sharpe ratio, 31
DPO (Direct Preference Optimization), 256
--- PAGE 529 ---
DRL (Deep Reinforcement Learning)
portfolio optimization and, 46–49
Sharpe ratio, 99–100
dropout, 95
dynamic hedging strategies, term structure arbitrage
strategies, 51
E
EDA (exploratory data analysis), 84–85, 104
efficient frontier computing, 272–274
EH (Expectations Hypothesis), 34–35
ELBO (Evidence Lower Bound), 172, 173–174
ELMo Open AI GPT, 227
ES futures, VIX futures HR (hedge ratio), 41–43
ETF SPY, daily prices, 5–8
ETFs (exchange-traded funds)
BIL (SPDR Bloomberg 1-3 Month T-Bill ETF), 7
MATLAB code, 11–16
portfolio, 4
event input data, 47
excess returns, Sharpe ratio, 31
Explicit Density Models
autoregressive models, 123
normalizing flows, 123
VAEs (Variational Autoencoders), 123
--- PAGE 530 ---
F
F1 score, 86
FA (Factor Analysis), 75, 161, 162–163
Fama-French data file, 21
Fama-French factors, 19–33, 68–69, 161
Fama, Eugene F., 19
feature engineering, 102
ADF (augmented Dickey-Fuller test), 103
Generative AI as generator, 105
importance ranking, 105–106
stationarity, 103
third-party feature validation, 104–105
time series
merging, frequencies and, 103–104
versus cross-sectional features, 104
feedforward neural networks, 92
FFmpeg, 224–225
FinBERT, 229–231
Distilled FinBERT, 249–252
speed, 240–247
--- PAGE 531 ---
flow models, 183
Autoregressive Flows, MAF (Masked Autoregressive
Flow), 195
conditioned normalizing flows, 197–198
Continuous Normalizing Flows, 195–196
coupling flows, 188
NICE, 189, 190–191
Real-NVP, 189, 191–195
derived distribution, 184
linear flows, 185–187
model training, 185
nonlinear flows, 187–188
normalizing flow, 184–185
taxonomy, 184
time series
domain knowledge, 198
flows, adapting, 196–197
image data transition, 196
FN (false negatives), 86
FP (false positives), 86
FPR (False Positive Rate), 87
French, Kenneth R., 19
FT (fine-tuning), 253–254
fundamental data, 46–47
futures, look-ahead bias, 102
FVSBN (fully visible sigmoid belief network), 129–130
--- PAGE 532 ---
G
GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), 123, 159, 201
SNGAN (Spectral Normalization GAN), 211, 213
taxonomy, 202
time series, 214–215
training, 202–208
WGAN (Wasserstein GAN), 211–212
WGAN-GP, 213–214
Gaussian Brownian Motion, 50, 55
Gemini Pro (Google), 3
--- PAGE 533 ---
Generative AI, 109
discriminative models, 110–111
generative models, 110–111
as simulators, 113–118
ChatGPT and, 113–119
conditional, 111–112
data creation, 114
data generation, 112
discriminative models, 110–111
Explicit Density Models, 123
Implicit Density Models, 123
NLP (Natural Language Processing), 113
probability density estimation, 112
RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), 119
representation learning, 112–113, 118–119
taxonomy, 109
hybrid modeling, 119–123
--- PAGE 534 ---
generative models
AR (autoregressive) models, 125–126
as simulators, 113–118
ChatGPT and
data creation, 114
language generation, conditional, 114–118
language modeling, 113–114
conditional, 111–112
data creation, 114
data generation, 112
discriminative models, 110–111, 119
Explicit Density Models
autoregressive models, 123
normalizing flows, 123
VAEs (Variational Autoencoders), 123
Implicit Density Models
Diffusion Models, 123
GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), 123
NLP (Natural Language Processing), 113
probability density estimation, 112
RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), 119
representation learning, 112–113, 118–119
taxonomy, 109
variants, combining, 260–261
GLM (Generalized Linear Model), 123
--- PAGE 535 ---
GMM (Gaussian Mixture Models), 77, 110–111, 162, 166
as HMM (Hidden Markov Model), 170
limitations, 170
market regime detection, 167–169
GNP (gross national product), 128
GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformers), 134–135
Grok (xAI), 3
H
hedging market risk, mini-S&P futures and, 39–40
Heston volatility model, 55–57
historical market data retrieval, 4–16
HML (High-Minus-Low), 20, 161
HMM (Hidden Markov Model), 71, 72, 77
EM (Expectation-Maximization), 170
GMM (Gaussian Mixture Model as HMM, 170
Markov Property, 127
RNNs (Recurrent Neural Networks) and, 97
HPO (hyperparameter optimization), 83–84
HR (hedge ratio), VIX futures, 41–43
HRP (Hierarchical Risk Parity), 71, 72, 73–74
hyperparameter optimization, 71
--- PAGE 536 ---
I
identifiers, unique identifiers, 100–101
IID (independent and identically distributed) observations,
84
Implicit Density Models, 109
Autoregressive models, 126
Flow models, 184
Diffusion Models, 123
GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), 202, 123
Variational autoencoders, 160
implied volatility, 63–64
inhomogeneous features, 89
input data, 46–49
interest rate options arbitrage, term structure arbitrage
strategies, 51
IQR (interquartile range), 152
J
Jensen’s inequality, 172
K
Kalman filter, 125, 161
Kullback-Leibler divergence, 156, 172, 202, 243
--- PAGE 537 ---
L
L1 regularization, 81–83
L2 regularization, 81–83
language modeling, transformer models, 149–150
Levy Process Model, 55
LFSS (Latent Feature State Space) module, 47–49
LightGBM, NaNs, 22–23
linear flows, 185–187
linear normalizing flows, 185–186
nonlinear flows, 187–188
linear regression
binary variable, 80
L1 regularization, 81–83
L2 regularization, 81–83
LinearRegression (Scikit-learn), 23–24
MLE (maximum likelihood estimation), 80
NaNs (Not a Number), 22
Python, 23
Statsmodels, 23
supervised learning, 79–81
training, 22–26
LinearRegression (Scikit-learn), 23–24
LL (log likelihood), 85
--- PAGE 538 ---
LLMs (Large Language Models), 119
as financial advisors, 261
customization, 252–256
emergent abilities, 237
model size impact, 237–238
scaling, 236–239
sentiment analysis
BERT model, 225–231
Fed press conference speech, 217–221
results of experiment, 232–234
speech-to-text conversion, 221–225
video and audio data, 221
training time effects, 238–239
LM (Language Modeling), 113, 150–152
efficient inference, 239–240
logistic regression model, 128–129
logistic regressions, 71, 128
supervised learning, 79–81
long_maturity_tenor, 35
long-term options, calendar spread strategy, 52–53
look-ahead bias, 101–102
LoRA (low-rank adaptation of Large Language Models),
254–256
--- PAGE 539 ---
LVMs (latent variable models), 159
amortized inference, 174
DLVM (deep latent variable models), 170–171
ELBO (Evidence Lower Bound), 172, 173–174
FA (Factor Analysis), 161, 162–163
PPCA comparison, 164–165
Fama-French factors, 161
GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), 159
GMM (Gaussian Mixture Models), 162, 166–170
heteroscedastic noise, 164–166
HML (High-Minus-Low), 161
Jensen’s inequality, 172
latent space recovery, 164–165
optimization, 174–175
PPCA (Probabilistic Principal Component Analysis), 162,
163–166
FA comparison, 164–165
proposal distribution, 173–174
SMB (Small Minus Big), 161
VAEs (Variational Autoencoders), 176–177
sequential data, 177–181
time series, 177
extending, 178
superposition, 178–179
TimeVAE, 179–181
variational inference approximation, 171–172
--- PAGE 540 ---
M
macro signals data, 47
MADE (Masked Autoencoder for Density Estimation), 130–
131
MAF (Masked Autoregressive Flow), 195
market data retrieval, historical data, 4–5
market indicators inputs, 47
market risk (Rm-Rf), 19
Markov Property, 127
Matlab, 3–4, 32
ATM (At-The-Money) option, 60–61
codes, translating to Python, 11–16
efficient frontier computing, 272–274
Matlab Financial Instruments Toolbox, 61
tangency portfolio, 272–274
Maximum Likelihood models, 155
mean reversion
estimates, SPX, 58–60
Heston model, 56–57
metalabeling, 78
Microsoft Copilot, 3
mini-S&P futures, 35
hedging market risk and, 39–40
VIX futures HR (hedge ratios), 41–43
--- PAGE 541 ---
ML (machine learning)
bosting, 90
CAI (Corrective AI), 78
data engineering
dividends, 101
look-ahead bias, 101–102
split adjustments, 101
survivorship bias, 101
unique identifiers, 100–101
decision boundary, 87
design matrix, 79
feature engineering, 102
Generative AI as generator, 105
importance ranking, 105–106
stationarity, 103
third-party feature validation, 104–105
time series, 103–104
neural networks, 89
--- PAGE 542 ---
NN (neural networks), 91–96
AR (autoregressive models), 128
backpropagation, 93–95
CMNN (Causal Masked Neural Network), 128, 131–
133
DNN (Deep Neural Networks), 120–121
dropout, 95
feedforward neural networks, 92
MLP (multilayer perceptron), 92–93
PyTorch, 93
regularization, 95
RNN (Recurrent Neural Network), 96–98, 128, 133–
134
TensorFlow, 93
portfolio optimization, 45–49
regularizing, 76
--- PAGE 543 ---
supervised learning, 77–78
CAI (Corrective AI), 72
CPO (Conditional Parameter/Portfolio Optimization),
72
cross-validation, 83–84
HPO (hyperparameter optimization), 71, 83–84
linear regressions, 79–81
logistic regressions, 71, 79–81
performance metrics, 71, 84–89
tree-based models, 71
validation, 83–84
tree-based models, 89–91
unsupervised learning, 71–77, 85
cMDA (cluster-based Feature Selection), 71, 76–77
HHM (Hidden Markov Model), 71, 72, 77
HRP (Hierarchical Risk Parity), 71, 72, 73–74
PCA (Principal Component Analysis), 71, 72, 75–76
MLE (maximum likelihood estimation), 80, 155, 165, 201
MLP (multilayer perceptron), 92–93
MNIST dataset, 128–131, 191
MSE (mean squared errors), 80, 84
--- PAGE 544 ---
N
NaNs (Not a Number), 10
LightGBM, 22–23
regression models, 22
Negative Log Likelihood, 156
Neural ODE (Neural Ordinary Differential Equation), 195–
196
news input data, 47
next-N-day returns, 67–69
NICE (Nonlinear Independent Components Estimation),
189, 190–191
NLP (Natural Language Processing)
attention, transformer models, 135
generative models, 113
language generation, 114–118
LM (Language Modeling), 113
--- PAGE 545 ---
NN (neural networks), 91–96
AR (autoregressive models), 128
backpropagation, 93–95
CMNN (Causal Masked Neural Network), 128, 131–133
DNN (Deep Neural Networks), 120–121
dropout, 95
feedforward neural networks, 92
HMMs (Hidden Markov Model), 97–98
MLP (multilayer perceptron), 92–93
PyTorch, 93
regularization, 95
RNN (Recurrent Neural Network), 96–98, 128, 133–134
TensorFlow, 93
non-numeric data, 9–10
normalizing flow, 184–185
NumPy, 11
O
OHLC (Open, High, Low, Close) data, 48
OOD (out-of-distribution) problem, 121–122
OpenAI API, 115
--- PAGE 546 ---
OpenAI
ChatGPT access, 118–119
data collection, 222
DALL-E, 260
ELMo OpenAI GPT, 227
Embeddings API, 119
.en models, 223
GPT-3 transformation, 256
GPT family, 134–135
RAG (Retrieval-augmented Generation), 253
tokens, 113
Open AI BERT. See BERT (Bidirectional Encoder
Representations from Transformers)
OpenAI Whisper, 218, 222–225
optimization, LVMs (latent variable models), 174–175
order book input data, 47
orthogonal features, 75
OTM, 53, 54, 58, 62, 63
output, csv files, 6
--- PAGE 547 ---
P
parameters
CPO (Conditional Parameter/Portfolio Optimization), 45,
72, 78–79
hyperparameter optimization, 71
HPO (hyperparameter optimization), 83–84
MLE (maximum likelihood estimation), 155
PEFT (parameter-efficient fine-tuning), 253–256
PCA (Principal Component Analysis), 71, 72, 75–76, 163–
166
PEFT (parameter-efficient fine-tuning), 253–256
penalty terms, 82, 214
performance metrics, 71
accuracy of prediction, 85–86
AUC, 89
AUCH, 89
F1 score, 89
FN (false negatives), 86
FP (false positives), 86
macro-average, 86
micro-average, 86
TP (true positives), 86
weighted-average, 86
PoP (probability of profit), 78
portfolio optimization, 45–49
--- PAGE 548 ---
PPCA (Probabilistic Principal Component Analysis), 75, 162
FA (Factor Analysis), 164–166
PCA (Principal Component Analysis), 75
PPO (Proximal Policy Optimization), 100
predict_returns functions, 26
price-based input data, 46
probability density estimation, 112, 115–117
prompt examples, 4
proposal distribution, 173–174
Pyraformer model, 155
Python
backtesting, 44–45
FFmpeg, 224
installation, 265–267
linear regression, 23
Matlab codes, 11–16
next-day returns, 67
Pandas dataframe, 68
Sharpe Ratio, 270–271
Whisper library, 223
PyTorch, 93, 95, 98
Attention Head, 143
linear quantization, 251–252
PyTorch Lightning, 243
pytube library, 221, 232
--- PAGE 549 ---
Q
Q-learning, 100
quantization, linear, 247–249
Distilled FinBERT, 249–252
PyTorch, 251–252
R
RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), 119, 252–253
Random Forest, tree-based models, 90
Real-NVP (Non-volume Preserving Transformation), 189,
191–195
--- PAGE 550 ---
regression
CPO (Conditional Parameter Portfolio Optimization), 78–
79
linear regression
binary variable, 80
L1 regularization, 81–83
L2 regularization, 81–83
LinearRegression (Scikit-learn), 23–24
MLE (maximum likelihood estimation), 80
NaNs (Not a Number), 22
Statsmodels, 23
supervised learning, 79–81
training, 22–26
logistic regressions, 71
supervised learning, 79–81
performance metrics, 84–89
regression trees, 89–91
CART, 89–90
Random Forest, 90
regularization, 90
regression models
fitted model objects, 25
LinearRegression (Scikit-learn), 23–24
NaNs (Not a Number), 22
Statsmodels, 23
training, 22–26
--- PAGE 551 ---
regression trees, 89–91
CART, 89–90
Random Forest, 90
regularization, 90
regularization
L1 regularization, 81–83
L2 regularization, 81–83
NN (neural networks), 95
penalty terms, 82
regression trees, 90
transformer models, 148–149
relative value spreads, 34
representation complexity, AR (autoregressive) models,
126–128
representation learning, 112–113, 118–119
responses to prompts, examples, 4
results, plotting, 7
returns, cumulative returns curve, 33
Rf (risk-free) rate, 32, 268
risk metrics, inputs, 47
risk-free-rate plotting over years, 268–270
RL (reinforcement learning), 78
DRL (Deep Reinforcement Learning), 46–48, 99–100
RLHF (Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback),
256
Rm-Rf (market risk), 19
--- PAGE 552 ---
RNN (Recurrent Neural Network), 96–98, 128, 133–134
HMMs (Hidden Markov Models) and, 97
transformer models, 134
VRAE (Variational Recurrent Autoencoder), 178
ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristics) curve, 87–89
S
S&P futures, hedging market risk and, 39–40
sampling, 196
Ancestral sampling, 130
autoregressive generative models, 117
down-sampling, 103
frequencies, 102–103
from FVSN, 130
GANs, 203
importance sampling, 172
temperature scaling, 118
top-k/top-p sampling, 118
VAE and, 176–177
Scikit-learn, LinearRegression, 23–24
SciPy, 11
library installation, 14
SDEs (stochastic differential equations), 56–57
securities master, 100
--- PAGE 553 ---
sentiment analysis, 113
Financial PhraseBank, 230
FinBERT, 228, 229, 232, 240
LLMs (Large Language Models)
BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers) model, 225–231
Fed press conference speech, 217–221
results of experiment, 232–234
speech-to-text conversion, 221–225
video and audio data, 221
OpenAI Whisper, 218, 222–225
transformer models, 149–150
sequence modeling, AR (autoregressive) models, 125
CMNN (Causal Masked Neural Network), 128, 131–133
logistic regression, 128
logistic regression model, 128–129
MADE (Masked Autoencoder for Density Estimation),
130–131
NN (neural networks), 128
representation complexity, 126–127
representation complexity reduction, 127–128
RNN (Recurrent Neural Network), 133–134
transformer models, 134–150
sequential data, 125
SGD (stochastic gradient descent), 93, 156
--- PAGE 554 ---
Sharpe ratio, 3, 7–10, 16, 84
dollar-neutral portfolio, 31
DRL (Deep Reinforcement Learning), 99–100
excess returns, 31
Rf (risk-free rate), 268
Risk-Free Rate, 31
SPY, 6–7, 270–272
strategy and leverage, 31
short_maturity_tenor, 35
short-term options, calendar spread strategy, 52–53
sigmoid function, 80
size factor, SMB (Small Minus Big), 19
SkyFi, 119
SMB (Small Minus Big), 19, 161
SNGAN (Spectral Normalization GAN), 211, 213
SPDR Bloomberg 1-3 Month T-Bill ETF. See BIL
split adjustments, data engineering and, 101
SPX (S&P 500 Index)
ATM (At-The-Money), 63
correlation coefficient , 60
mean reversion, 58–60
options calendar, 18
SPY, daily returns, 5–6
Sharpe ratio, 6–7
Statsmodels, 23
--- PAGE 555 ---
stochastic volatility models, 55–57, 63–64
stock returns. See also trading strategies
CAPM (Capital Asset Pricing Model), 19
stock tickers, dendrogram, 74
stock_features function, 26
strategy specification, codes, 19–33
supervised learning, 77–78
CAI (Corrective AI), 72
CPO (Conditional Parameter/Portfolio Optimization), 72
cross-validation, 83–84
HPO (hyperparameter optimization), 83–84
hyperparameter optimization, 71
linear regression, 71, 79–81
binary variable, 80
L1 regularization, 81–83
L2 regularization, 81–83
MLE (maximum likelihood estimation), 80
logistic regressions, 71, 79–81
performance metrics, 71, 84–89
tree-based models, 71
validation, 83–84
survivorship bias, 21, 101
SVD (singular value decomposition), 75
--- PAGE 556 ---
T
tangency portfolio, 272–274
technical indicators inputs, 47
tenors
long_maturity_tenor, 35
short_maturity_tenor, 35
TensorFlow, 93, 175, 243
term structure arbitrage strategies
ATM (At-The-Money) option, 60–61
butterfly spreads in time, 51
calendar spreads, 50–51, 52–53
diagonal spreads, 51
dynamic hedging strategies, 51
Heston volatility model, 55–57
implementation, 51–52
implied volatilities, 54
publications, 57–58
stochastic volatility models, 55–57
volatility smile, 55, 56–57
interest rate options arbitrage, 51
out-of-the money put, 54
variance swaps, 51
volatility surface arbitrage, 51
testing records, 134–135
--- PAGE 557 ---
time series
feature engineering
merging, frequencies and, 103–104
versus cross-sectional features, 104
flow models
domain knowledge, 198
flows, adapting, 196–197
image data transition, 196
GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks), 214–215
transformer models
Attention Layer, 155
Chronos approach, 151–152
contextual information, 154–155
continuous input, 152–155
denormalization, 151
dequantization, 151
discretizing data, 151–152
input normalization, 154–155
Lag-Llama approach, 152–155
positional encoding, 155
tokenization, 151–152
VAEs (Variational Autoencoders), 177
extending, 178
superposition, 178–179
TimeVAE, 179–181
--- PAGE 558 ---
time-series features, 26
TimeVAE, 179–181
TP (true positives), 86
TPR (True Positive Rate), 87
trading strategies, 17. See also stock returns
backtest code creation, 34–45
BN (beta neutral), 34–35
Fama-French factors, 19–21
HML (high minus low), 20
relative value spreads, 34
Rm-Rf (market risk), 19
SMB (Small Minus Big), 19
summarizing, 34–45
--- PAGE 559 ---
transformer models, 134–135, 149–150
Add blocks, 148
attention, 135–144
BERT matrix, 136–139
BertViz, 137–140
hard attention, 140
Hugging Face library, 135–137
multi-headed, 146–147
NLP and, 135
scaled dot-product, 141–143
soft attention, 140
token embeddings, 135
Token IDs, 135–137
tokenization, 135
unnormalized scores, 142
visualizing, 137–140
BERT (Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers), 134–135
Encoder layer, 148–149
feed-forward layer, 147–148
GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformers), 134–135
language modeling, 149–150
model objective, 149–150
NLP (Natural Language Processing), 135
Norm blocks, 148
positional encodings, 145–146
--- PAGE 560 ---
RNNs (Recurrent Neural Networks), 134
sentiment analysis, 149
time series
Attention Layer, 155
Chronos approach, 151–152
contextual information, 154–155
continuous input, 152–155
denormalization, 151
dequantization, 151
discretizing data, 151–152
input normalization, 154–155
Lag-Llama approach, 152–155
positional encoding, 155
tokenization, 151–152
visualization, 144–145
tree-based models, 71
tree-based regression models, 89–91
CART, 89–90
Random Forest, 90
U
unique identifiers, 100–101
--- PAGE 561 ---
unsupervised learning, 71
cMDA (cluster-based Feature Selection), 71, 76–77, 85
HHM (Hidden Markov Model), 71, 72, 77
HRP (Hierarchical Risk Parity), 71, 72, 73–74
PCA (Principal Component Analysis), 71, 72, 75–76
V
VAEs (Variational Autoencoders), 123, 176–177, 183–184
Explicit Density Models, 123
sequential data, 177–181
time series, 177
extending, 178
superposition, 178–179
TimeVAE, 179–181
validation, cross-validation, 83–84
value factor, HML (high minus low), 20
VaR (Value at Risk), 117
variables. See also LVMs (latent variable models)
variance swaps, term structure arbitrage strategies, 51
visualization, transformer models, 144–145
attention, 137–140
VIX futures, 34–39
ES futures HR (hedge ratio), 41–43
mini-S&P futures HR (hedge ratio), 41–43
VIX index, 38
--- PAGE 562 ---
volatility smile, 55, 56–57
volatility surface arbitrage, term structure arbitrage
strategies, 51
volume data inputs, 46
VRAE (Variational Recurrent Autoencoder), 178
VWAP (Volume-Weighted Average Price), 103
W–Z
WaveNet, 132–133
WGAN (Wasserstein GAN), 211–214
--- PAGE 563 ---
WILEY END USER LICENSE
AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook
EULA.